"""
The intense interest aroused in the public by what was known at the time
as "The Styles Case" has now somewhat subsided. Nevertheless, in view of
the world-wide notoriety which attended it, I have been asked, both by
my friend Poirot and the family themselves, to write an account of the
whole story. This, we trust, will effectually silence the sensational
rumours which still persist.
I will therefore briefly set down the circumstances which led to my
being connected with the affair.
I had been invalided home from the Front; and, after spending some
months in a rather depressing Convalescent Home, was given a month's
sick leave. Having no near relations or friends, I was trying to make
up my mind what to do, when I ran across John Cavendish. I had seen very
little of him for some years. Indeed, I had never known him particularly
well. He was a good fifteen years my senior, for one thing, though he
hardly looked his forty-five years. As a boy, though, I had often stayed
at Styles, his mother's place in Essex.
We had a good yarn about old times, and it ended in his inviting me down
to Styles to spend my leave there.
"The mater will be delighted to see you again--after all those years,"
he added.
"Your mother keeps well?" I asked.
"Oh, yes. I suppose you know that she has married again?"
I am afraid I showed my surprise rather plainly. Mrs. Cavendish, who had
married John's father when he was a widower with two sons, had been a
handsome woman of middle-age as I remembered her. She certainly could
not be a day less than seventy now. I recalled her as an energetic,
autocratic personality, somewhat inclined to charitable and social
notoriety, with a fondness for opening bazaars and playing the Lady
Bountiful. She was a most generous woman, and possessed a considerable
fortune of her own.
"""
,
"""
Their country-place, Styles Court, had been purchased by Mr. Cavendish
early in their married life. He had been completely under his wife's
ascendancy, so much so that, on dying, he left the place to her for her
lifetime, as well as the larger part of his income; an arrangement that
was distinctly unfair to his two sons. Their step-mother, however, had
always been most generous to them; indeed, they were so young at the
time of their father's remarriage that they always thought of her as
their own mother.
Lawrence, the younger, had been a delicate youth. He had qualified as a
doctor but early relinquished the profession of medicine, and lived at
home while pursuing literary ambitions; though his verses never had any
marked success.
John practiced for some time as a barrister, but had finally settled
down to the more congenial life of a country squire. He had married
two years ago, and had taken his wife to live at Styles, though I
entertained a shrewd suspicion that he would have preferred his mother
to increase his allowance, which would have enabled him to have a home
of his own. Mrs. Cavendish, however, was a lady who liked to make her
own plans, and expected other people to fall in with them, and in this
case she certainly had the whip hand, namely: the purse strings.
John noticed my surprise at the news of his mother's remarriage and
smiled rather ruefully.
"Rotten little bounder too!" he said savagely. "I can tell you,
Hastings, it's making life jolly difficult for us. As for Evie--you
remember Evie?"
"No."
"Oh, I suppose she was after your time. She's the mater's factotum,
companion, Jack of all trades! A great sport--old Evie! Not precisely
young and beautiful, but as game as they make them."
"""
,
"""
"You were going to say----?"
"Oh, this fellow! He turned up from nowhere, on the pretext of being
a second cousin or something of Evie's, though she didn't seem
particularly keen to acknowledge the relationship. The fellow is an
absolute outsider, anyone can see that. He's got a great black beard,
and wears patent leather boots in all weathers! But the mater cottoned
to him at once, took him on as secretary--you know how she's always
running a hundred societies?"
I nodded.
"Well, of course the war has turned the hundreds into thousands. No
doubt the fellow was very useful to her. But you could have knocked us
all down with a feather when, three months ago, she suddenly announced
that she and Alfred were engaged! The fellow must be at least twenty
years younger than she is! It's simply bare-faced fortune hunting; but
there you are--she is her own mistress, and she's married him."
"It must be a difficult situation for you all."
"Difficult! It's damnable!"
Thus it came about that, three days later, I descended from the train at
Styles St. Mary, an absurd little station, with no apparent reason for
existence, perched up in the midst of green fields and country lanes.
John Cavendish was waiting on the platform, and piloted me out to the car.
"Got a drop or two of petrol still, you see," he remarked. "Mainly owing
to the mater's activities."
The village of Styles St. Mary was situated about two miles from the
little station, and Styles Court lay a mile the other side of it. It was
a still, warm day in early July. As one looked out over the flat Essex
country, lying so green and peaceful under the afternoon sun, it seemed
almost impossible to believe that, not so very far away, a great war was
running its appointed course. I felt I had suddenly strayed into another world.
"""
,
"""
As we turned in at the lodge gates, John said:
"I'm afraid you'll find it very quiet down here, Hastings."
"My dear fellow, that's just what I want."
"Oh, it's pleasant enough if you want to lead the idle life. I drill
with the volunteers twice a week, and lend a hand at the farms. My wife
works regularly 'on the land'. She is up at five every morning to milk,
and keeps at it steadily until lunchtime. It's a jolly good life taking
it all round--if it weren't for that fellow Alfred Inglethorp!" He
checked the car suddenly, and glanced at his watch. "I wonder if we've
time to pick up Cynthia. No, she'll have started from the hospital by
now."
"Cynthia! That's not your wife?"
"No, Cynthia is a protegee of my mother's, the daughter of an old
schoolfellow of hers, who married a rascally solicitor. He came a
cropper, and the girl was left an orphan and penniless. My mother came
to the rescue, and Cynthia has been with us nearly two years now. She
works in the Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster, seven miles away."
As he spoke the last words, we drew up in front of the fine old house.
A lady in a stout tweed skirt, who was bending over a flower bed,
straightened herself at our approach.
"Hullo, Evie, here's our wounded hero! Mr. Hastings--Miss Howard."
Miss Howard shook hands with a hearty, almost painful, grip. I had
an impression of very blue eyes in a sunburnt face. She was a
pleasant-looking woman of about forty, with a deep voice, almost manly
in its stentorian tones, and had a large sensible square body, with feet
to match--these last encased in good thick boots. Her conversation, I
soon found, was couched in the telegraphic style.
"""
,
"""
"Weeds grow like house afire. Can't keep even with 'em. Shall press you
in. Better be careful."
"I'm sure I shall be only too delighted to make myself useful," I responded.
"Don't say it. Never does. Wish you hadn't later."
"You're a cynic, Evie," said John, laughing. "Where's tea to-day--inside
or out?"
"Out. Too fine a day to be cooped up in the house."
"Come on then, you've done enough gardening for to-day. 'The labourer is
worthy of his hire', you know. Come and be refreshed."
"Well," said Miss Howard, drawing off her gardening gloves, "I'm
inclined to agree with you."
She led the way round the house to where tea was spread under the shade
of a large sycamore.
A figure rose from one of the basket chairs, and came a few steps to
meet us.
"My wife, Hastings," said John.
I shall never forget my first sight of Mary Cavendish. Her tall, slender
form, outlined against the bright light; the vivid sense of slumbering
fire that seemed to find expression only in those wonderful tawny eyes
of hers, remarkable eyes, different from any other woman's that I
have ever known; the intense power of stillness she possessed, which
nevertheless conveyed the impression of a wild untamed spirit in an
exquisitely civilised body--all these things are burnt into my memory. I
shall never forget them.
She greeted me with a few words of pleasant welcome in a low clear
voice, and I sank into a basket chair feeling distinctly glad that I had
accepted John's invitation. Mrs. Cavendish gave me some tea, and her
few quiet remarks heightened my first impression of her as a thoroughly
fascinating woman. An appreciative listener is always stimulating, and
I described, in a humorous manner, certain incidents of my Convalescent
Home, in a way which, I flatter myself, greatly amused my hostess. John,
of course, good fellow though he is, could hardly be called a brilliant
conversationalist.
"""
,
"""
The man took a card from his pocket and handed it to her with a bow.
Tuppence took it and scrutinized it carefully. It bore the inscription,
"Mr. Edward Whittington." Below the name were the words "Esthonia
Glassware Co.," and the address of a city office. Mr. Whittington spoke
again:
"If you will call upon me to-morrow morning at eleven o'clock, I will
lay the details of my proposition before you."
"At eleven o'clock?" said Tuppence doubtfully.
"At eleven o'clock."
Tuppence made up her mind.
"Very well. I'll be there."
"Thank you. Good evening."
He raised his hat with a flourish, and walked away. Tuppence remained
for some minutes gazing after him. Then she gave a curious movement of
her shoulders, rather as a terrier shakes himself.
"The adventures have begun," she murmured to herself. "What does he want
me to do, I wonder? There's something about you, Mr. Whittington, that I
don't like at all. But, on the other hand, I'm not the least bit afraid
of you. And as I've said before, and shall doubtless say again, little
Tuppence can look after herself, thank you!"
And with a short, sharp nod of her head she walked briskly onward. As a
result of further meditations, however, she turned aside from the direct
route and entered a post office. There she pondered for some moments,
a telegraph form in her hand. The thought of a possible five shillings
spent unnecessarily spurred her to action, and she decided to risk the
waste of ninepence.
Disdaining the spiky pen and thick, black treacle which a beneficent
Government had provided, Tuppence drew out Tommy's pencil which she had
retained and wrote rapidly: "Don't put in advertisement. Will explain
to-morrow." She addressed it to Tommy at his club, from which in one
short month he would have to resign, unless a kindly fortune permitted
him to renew his subscription.
"""
,
"""
"It may catch him," she murmured. "Anyway, it's worth trying."
After handing it over the counter she set out briskly for home, stopping
at a baker's to buy three penny-worth of new buns.
Later, in her tiny cubicle at the top of the house she munched buns and
reflected on the future. What was the Esthonia Glassware Co., and what
earthly need could it have for her services? A pleasurable thrill of
excitement made Tuppence tingle. At any rate, the country vicarage had
retreated into the background again. The morrow held possibilities.
It was a long time before Tuppence went to sleep that night, and, when
at length she did, she dreamed that Mr. Whittington had set her to
washing up a pile of Esthonia Glassware, which bore an unaccountable
resemblance to hospital plates!
It wanted some five minutes to eleven when Tuppence reached the block
of buildings in which the offices of the Esthonia Glassware Co. were
situated. To arrive before the time would look over-eager. So Tuppence
decided to walk to the end of the street and back again. She did so. On
the stroke of eleven she plunged into the recesses of the building.
The Esthonia Glassware Co. was on the top floor. There was a lift, but
Tuppence chose to walk up.
Slightly out of breath, she came to a halt outside the ground glass door
with the legend painted across it "Esthonia Glassware Co."
Tuppence knocked. In response to a voice from within, she turned the
handle and walked into a small rather dirty outer office.
A middle-aged clerk got down from a high stool at a desk near the window
and came towards her inquiringly.
"I have an appointment with Mr. Whittington," said Tuppence.
"Will you come this way, please." He crossed to a partition door with
"Private" on it, knocked, then opened the door and stood aside to let
her pass in.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Whittington was seated behind a large desk covered with papers.
Tuppence felt her previous judgment confirmed. There was something wrong
about Mr. Whittington. The combination of his sleek prosperity and his
shifty eye was not attractive.
He looked up and nodded.
"So you've turned up all right? That's good. Sit down, will you?"
Tuppence sat down on the chair facing him. She looked particularly small
and demure this morning. She sat there meekly with downcast eyes whilst
Mr. Whittington sorted and rustled amongst his papers. Finally he pushed
them away, and leaned over the desk.
"Now, my dear young lady, let us come to business." His large face
broadened into a smile. "You want work? Well, I have work to offer
you. What should you say now to L100 down, and all expenses paid?" Mr.
Whittington leaned back in his chair, and thrust his thumbs into the
arm-holes of his waistcoat.
Tuppence eyed him warily.
"And the nature of the work?" she demanded.
"Nominal--purely nominal. A pleasant trip, that is all."
"Where to?"
Mr. Whittington smiled again.
"Paris."
"Oh!" said Tuppence thoughtfully. To herself she said: "Of course,
if father heard that he would have a fit! But somehow I don't see Mr.
Whittington in the role of the gay deceiver."
"Yes," continued Whittington. "What could be more delightful? To put the
clock back a few years--a very few, I am sure--and re-enter one of those
charming pensionnats de jeunes filles with which Paris abounds----"
Tuppence interrupted him.
"A pensionnat?"
"Exactly. Madame Colombier's in the Avenue de Neuilly."


Tuppence knew the name well. Nothing could have been more select. She
had had several American friends there. She was more than ever puzzled.
"You want me to go to Madame Colombier's? For how long?"
"That depends. Possibly three months."
"And that is all? There are no other conditions?"
"""
,
"""
"None whatever. You would, of course, go in the character of my ward,
and you would hold no communication with your friends. I should have
to request absolute secrecy for the time being. By the way, you are
English, are you not?"
"Yes."
"Yet you speak with a slight American accent?"
"My great pal in hospital was a little American girl. I dare say I
picked it up from her. I can soon get out of it again."
"On the contrary, it might be simpler for you to pass as an American.
Details about your past life in England might be more difficult to
sustain. Yes, I think that would be decidedly better. Then----"
"One moment, Mr. Whittington! You seem to be taking my consent for
granted."
Whittington looked surprised.
"Surely you are not thinking of refusing? I can assure you that Madame
Colombier's is a most high-class and orthodox establishment. And the
terms are most liberal."
"Exactly," said Tuppence. "That's just it. The terms are almost too
liberal, Mr. Whittington. I cannot see any way in which I can be worth
that amount of money to you."
"No?" said Whittington softly. "Well, I will tell you. I could doubtless
obtain some one else for very much less. What I am willing to pay for
is a young lady with sufficient intelligence and presence of mind to
sustain her part well, and also one who will have sufficient discretion
not to ask too many questions."
Tuppence smiled a little. She felt that Whittington had scored.
"There's another thing. So far there has been no mention of Mr.
Beresford. Where does he come in?"
"Mr. Beresford?"
"My partner," said Tuppence with dignity. "You saw us together
yesterday."
"Ah, yes. But I'm afraid we shan't require his services."
"Then it's off!" Tuppence rose. "It's both or neither. Sorry--but that's
how it is. Good morning, Mr. Whittington."
"""
,
"""
"Wait a minute. Let us see if something can't be managed. Sit down
again, Miss----" He paused interrogatively.
Tuppence's conscience gave her a passing twinge as she remembered the
archdeacon. She seized hurriedly on the first name that came into her
head.
"Jane Finn," she said hastily; and then paused open-mouthed at the
effect of those two simple words.
All the geniality had faded out of Whittington's face. It was purple
with rage, and the veins stood out on the forehead. And behind it all
there lurked a sort of incredulous dismay. He leaned forward and hissed
savagely:
"So that's your little game, is it?"
Tuppence, though utterly taken aback, nevertheless kept her head. She
had not the faintest comprehension of his meaning, but she was naturally
quick-witted, and felt it imperative to "keep her end up" as she phrased
it.
Whittington went on:
"Been playing with me, have you, all the time, like a cat and mouse?
Knew all the time what I wanted you for, but kept up the comedy. Is that
it, eh?" He was cooling down. The red colour was ebbing out of his face.
He eyed her keenly. "Who's been blabbing? Rita?"
Tuppence shook her head. She was doubtful as to how long she could
sustain this illusion, but she realized the importance of not dragging
an unknown Rita into it.
"No," she replied with perfect truth. "Rita knows nothing about me."
His eyes still bored into her like gimlets.
"How much do you know?" he shot out.
"Very little indeed," answered Tuppence, and was pleased to note that
Whittington's uneasiness was augmented instead of allayed. To have
boasted that she knew a lot might have raised doubts in his mind.
"Anyway," snarled Whittington, "you knew enough to come in here and
plump out that name."
"It might be my own name," Tuppence pointed out.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Barbecue-Smith was gone. The motor had whirled him away to the
station; a faint smell of burning oil commemorated his recent departure.
A considerable detachment had come into the courtyard to speed him on
his way; and now they were walking back, round the side of the house,
towards the terrace and the garden. They walked in silence; nobody had
yet ventured to comment on the departed guest.
"Well?" said Anne at last, turning with raised inquiring eyebrows to
Denis.
"Well?" It was time for someone to begin.
Denis declined the invitation; he passed it on to Mr Scogan. "Well?" he
said.
Mr. Scogan did not respond; he only repeated the question, "Well?"
It was left for Henry Wimbush to make a pronouncement. "A very agreeable
adjunct to the week-end," he said. His tone was obituary.
They had descended, without paying much attention where they were going,
the steep yew-walk that went down, under the flank of the terrace, to
the pool. The house towered above them, immensely tall, with the whole
height of the built-up terrace added to its own seventy feet of
brick facade. The perpendicular lines of the three towers soared up,
uninterrupted, enhancing the impression of height until it became
overwhelming. They paused at the edge of the pool to look back.
"The man who built this house knew his business," said Denis. "He was an
architect."
"Was he?" said Henry Wimbush reflectively. "I doubt it. The builder of
this house was Sir Ferdinando Lapith, who flourished during the reign of
Elizabeth. He inherited the estate from his father, to whom it had been
granted at the time of the dissolution of the monasteries; for Crome was
originally a cloister of monks and this swimming-pool their fish-pond.
Sir Ferdinando was not content merely to adapt the old monastic
buildings to his own purposes; but using them as a stone quarry for his
barns and byres and outhouses, he built for himself a grand new house of
brick--the house you see now."
"""
,
"""
He waved his hand in the direction of the house and was silent, severe,
imposing, almost menacing, Crome loomed down on them.
"The great thing about Crome," said Mr. Scogan, seizing the opportunity
to speak, "is the fact that it's so unmistakably and aggressively a work
of art. It makes no compromise with nature, but affronts it and
rebels against it. It has no likeness to Shelley's tower, in the
'Epipsychidion,' which, if I remember rightly--
"'Seems not now a work of human art, But as it were titanic, in the
heart Of earth having assumed its form and grown Out of the mountain,
from the living stone, Lifting itself in caverns light and high.'
"No, no, there isn't any nonsense of that sort about Crome. That the
hovels of the peasantry should look as though they had grown out of
the earth, to which their inmates are attached, is right, no doubt, and
suitable. But the house of an intelligent, civilised, and sophisticated
man should never seem to have sprouted from the clods. It should rather
be an expression of his grand unnatural remoteness from the cloddish
life. Since the days of William Morris that's a fact which we in England
have been unable to comprehend. Civilised and sophisticated men have
solemnly played at being peasants. Hence quaintness, arts and crafts,
cottage architecture, and all the rest of it. In the suburbs of our
cities you may see, reduplicated in endless rows, studiedly quaint
imitations and adaptations of the village hovel. Poverty, ignorance,
and a limited range of materials produced the hovel, which possesses
undoubtedly, in suitable surroundings, its own 'as it were titanic'
charm. We now employ our wealth, our technical knowledge, our rich
variety of materials for the purpose of building millions of imitation
hovels in totally unsuitable surroundings. Could imbecility go further?"
"""
,
"""
Henry Wimbush took up the thread of his interrupted discourse. "All that
you say, my dear Scogan," he began, "is certainly very just, very true.
But whether Sir Ferdinando shared your views about architecture or if,
indeed, he had any views about architecture at all, I very much doubt.
In building this house, Sir Ferdinando was, as a matter of fact,
preoccupied by only one thought--the proper placing of his privies.
Sanitation was the one great interest of his life. In 1573 he even
published, on this subject, a little book--now extremely scarce--called,
'Certaine Priuy Counsels' by 'One of Her Maiestie's Most Honourable
Priuy Counsels, F.L. Knight', in which the whole matter is treated with
great learning and elegance. His guiding principle in arranging the
sanitation of a house was to secure that the greatest possible distance
should separate the privy from the sewage arrangements. Hence it
followed inevitably that the privies were to be placed at the top of the
house, being connected by vertical shafts with pits or channels in the
ground. It must not be thought that Sir Ferdinando was moved only by
material and merely sanitary considerations; for the placing of his
privies in an exalted position he had also certain excellent spiritual
reasons. For, he argues in the third chapter of his 'Priuy Counsels',
the necessities of nature are so base and brutish that in obeying them
we are apt to forget that we are the noblest creatures of the universe.
To counteract these degrading effects he advised that the privy should
be in every house the room nearest to heaven, that it should be well
provided with windows commanding an extensive and noble prospect,
and that the walls of the chamber should be lined with bookshelves
containing all the ripest products of human wisdom, such as the Proverbs
of Solomon, Boethius's 'Consolations of Philosophy', the apophthegms
of Epictetus and Marcus Aurelius, the 'Enchiridion' of Erasmus, and all
other works, ancient or modern, which testify to the nobility of the
human soul.
"""
,
"""
In Crome he was able to put his theories into practice. At
the top of each of the three projecting towers he placed a privy. From
these a shaft went down the whole height of the house, that is to
say, more than seventy feet, through the cellars, and into a series of
conduits provided with flowing water tunnelled in the ground on a level
with the base of the raised terrace. These conduits emptied themselves
into the stream several hundred yards below the fish-pond. The total
depth of the shafts from the top of the towers to their subterranean
conduits was a hundred and two feet. The eighteenth century, with
its passion for modernisation, swept away these monuments of sanitary
ingenuity. Were it not for tradition and the explicit account of them
left by Sir Ferdinando, we should be unaware that these noble privies
had ever existed. We should even suppose that Sir Ferdinando built
his house after this strange and splendid model for merely aesthetic
reasons."
The contemplation of the glories of the past always evoked in Henry
Wimbush a certain enthusiasm. Under the grey bowler his face worked
and glowed as he spoke. The thought of these vanished privies moved
him profoundly. He ceased to speak; the light gradually died out of his
face, and it became once more the replica of the grave, polite hat which
shaded it. There was a long silence; the same gently melancholy thoughts
seemed to possess the mind of each of them. Permanence, transience--Sir
Ferdinando and his privies were gone, Crome still stood. How brightly
the sun shone and how inevitable was death! The ways of God were
strange; the ways of man were stranger still...
"It does one's heart good," exclaimed Mr. Scogan at last, "to hear of
these fantastic English aristocrats.
"""
,
"""
To have a theory about privies and to build an immense and splendid house in order to put it into practise--it's magnificent, beautiful! I like to think of them all: the
eccentric milords rolling across Europe in ponderous carriages, bound
on extraordinary errands. One is going to Venice to buy La Bianchi's
larynx; he won't get it till she's dead, of course, but no matter; he's
prepared to wait; he has a collection, pickled in glass bottles, of
the throats of famous opera singers. And the instruments of renowned
virtuosi--he goes in for them too; he will try to bribe Paganini to part
with his little Guarnerio, but he has small hope of success. Paganini
won't sell his fiddle; but perhaps he might sacrifice one of his
guitars. Others are bound on crusades--one to die miserably among the
savage Greeks, another, in his white top hat, to lead Italians against
their oppressors. Others have no business at all; they are just giving
their oddity a continental airing. At home they cultivate themselves at
leisure and with greater elaboration. Beckford builds towers, Portland
digs holes in the ground, Cavendish, the millionaire, lives in a stable,
eats nothing but mutton, and amuses himself--oh, solely for his private
delectation--by anticipating the electrical discoveries of half a
century. Glorious eccentrics! Every age is enlivened by their presence.
Some day, my dear Denis," said Mr Scogan, turning a beady bright regard
in his direction--"some day you must become their biographer--'The Lives
of Queer Men.' What a subject! I should like to undertake it myself."
Mr. Scogan paused, looked up once more at the towering house, then
murmured the word "Eccentricity," two or three times.
"Eccentricity...It's the justification of all aristocracies. It
justifies leisured classes and inherited wealth and privilege and
endowments and all the other injustices of that sort.
"""
,
"""
If you're to do anything reasonable in this world, you must have a class of people who
are secure, safe from public opinion, safe from poverty, leisured, not
compelled to waste their time in the imbecile routines that go by the
name of Honest Work. You must have a class of which the members can
think and, within the obvious limits, do what they please. You must have
a class in which people who have eccentricities can indulge them and in
which eccentricity in general will be tolerated and understood. That's
the important thing about an aristocracy. Not only is it eccentric
itself--often grandiosely so; it also tolerates and even encourages
eccentricity in others. The eccentricities of the artist and the
new-fangled thinker don't inspire it with that fear, loathing, and
disgust which the burgesses instinctively feel towards them. It is a
sort of Red Indian Reservation planted in the midst of a vast horde of
Poor Whites--colonials at that. Within its boundaries wild men disport
themselves--often, it must be admitted, a little grossly, a little too
flamboyantly; and when kindred spirits are born outside the pale it
offers them some sort of refuge from the hatred which the Poor Whites,
en bons bourgeois, lavish on anything that is wild or out of the
ordinary. After the social revolution there will be no Reservations;
the Redskins will be drowned in the great sea of Poor Whites. What then?
Will they suffer you to go on writing villanelles, my good Denis? Will
you, unhappy Henry, be allowed to live in this house of the splendid
privies, to continue your quiet delving in the mines of futile
knowledge? Will Anne..."
"And you," said Anne, interrupting him, "will you be allowed to go on
talking?"
"You may rest assured," Mr. Scogan replied, "that I shall not. I shall
have some Honest Work to do."
"""
,
"""
When an Englishman travels by the nearest sea-route from Great Britain to
Northern Japan he passes by countries very unlike his own, both in aspect
and natural productions. The sunny isles of the Mediterranean, the sands
and date-palms of Egypt, the arid rocks of Aden, the cocoa groves of
Ceylon, the tiger-haunted jungles of Malacca and Singapore, the fertile
plains and volcanic peaks of Luzon, the forest-clad mountains of Formosa,
and the bare hills of China, pass successively in review; till after a
circuitous voyage of thirteen thousand miles he finds himself at Hakodadi
in Japan. He is now separated from his starting-point by the whole width of
Europe and Northern Asia, by an almost endless succession of plains and
mountains, arid deserts or icy plateaux, yet when he visits the interior of
the country he sees so many familiar natural objects that he can hardly
help fancying he is close to his home. He finds the woods and fields
tenanted by tits, hedge-sparrows, wrens, wagtails, larks, redbreasts, {4}
thrushes, buntings, and house-sparrows, some absolutely identical with our
own feathered friends, others so closely resembling them that it requires a
practised ornithologist to tell the difference. If he is fond of insects he
notices many butterflies and a host of beetles which, though on close
examination they are found to be distinct from ours, are yet of the same
general aspect, and seem just what might be expected in any part of Europe.
There are also of course many birds and insects which are quite new and
peculiar, but these are by no means so numerous or conspicuous as to remove
the general impression of a wonderful resemblance between the productions
of such remote islands as Britain and Yesso.
Now let an inhabitant of Australia sail to New Zealand, a distance of less
than thirteen hundred miles, and he will find himself in a country whose
productions are totally unlike those of his own. Kangaroos and wombats
there are none, the birds are almost all entirely new, insects are very
scarce and quite unlike the handsome or strange Australian forms, while
even the vegetation is all changed, and no gum-tree, or wattle, or
grass-tree meets the traveller's eye.
"""
,
"""
But there are some more striking cases even than this, of the diversity of
the productions of countries not far apart. In the Malay Archipelago there
are two islands, named Bali and Lombok, each about as large as Corsica, and
separated by a strait only fifteen miles wide at its narrowest part. Yet
these islands differ far more from each other in their birds and quadrupeds
than do England and Japan. The birds of the one are extremely _unlike_
those of the other, the difference being such as to strike even the most
ordinary observer. Bali has red and green woodpeckers, barbets,
weaver-birds, and black-and-white magpie-robins, none of which are found in
Lombok, where, however, we find screaming cockatoos and friar-birds, and
the strange mound-building megapodes, which are all equally unknown in
Bali. Many of the kingfishers, crow-shrikes, and other birds, though of the
same general form, are of very distinct species; and though a considerable
number of birds are the same in both islands the difference {5} is none the
less remarkable--as proving that mere distance is one of the least
important of the causes which have determined the likeness or unlikeness in
the animals of different countries.
In the western hemisphere we find equally striking examples. The Eastern
United States possess very peculiar and interesting plants and animals, the
vegetation becoming more luxuriant as we go south but not altering in
essential character, so that when we reach Alabama or Florida we still find
ourselves in the midst of pines, oaks, sumachs, magnolias, vines, and other
characteristic forms of the temperate flora; while the birds, insects, and
land-shells are of the same general character with those found further
north.[1] But if we now cross over the narrow strait, about fifty miles
wide, which separates Florida from the Bahama Islands, we find ourselves in
a totally different country, surrounded by a vegetation which is
essentially tropical and generally identical with that of Cuba.
"""
,
"""
The change is most striking, because there is little difference of climate, of soil,
or apparently of position, to account for it; and when we find that the
birds, the insects, and especially the land-shells of the Bahamas are
almost all West Indian, while the North American types of plants and
animals have almost all completely disappeared, we shall be convinced that
such differences and resemblances cannot be due to existing conditions, but
must depend upon laws and causes to which mere proximity of position offers
no clue. Hardly less uncertain and irregular are the effects of climate. Hot
countries usually differ widely from cold ones in all their organic forms;
but the difference is by no means constant, nor does it bear any proportion
to difference of temperature. Between frigid Canada and sub-tropical
Florida there are less marked differences in the animal productions than
between Florida and Cuba or Yucatan, so much more alike in climate and so
much nearer together. So the differences between the birds and quadrupeds
of temperate Tasmania and tropical North {6} Australia are slight and
unimportant as compared with the enormous differences we find when we pass
from the latter country to equally tropical Java. If we compare
corresponding portions of different continents, we find no indication that
the almost perfect similarity of climate and general conditions has any
tendency to produce similarity in the animal world. The equatorial parts of
Brazil and of the West Coast of Africa are almost identical in climate and
in luxuriance of vegetation, but their animal life is totally diverse. In
the former we have tapirs, sloths, and prehensile-tailed monkeys; in the
latter elephants, antelopes, and man-like apes; while among birds, the
toucans, chatterers, and humming-birds of Brazil are replaced by the
plantain-eaters, bee-eaters, and sun-birds of Africa. Parts of
South-temperate America, South Africa, and South Australia, correspond
closely in climate; yet the birds and quadrupeds of these three districts
are as completely unlike each other as those of any parts of the world that
can be named.
"""
,
"""
If we visit the great islands of the globe, we find that they present
similar anomalies in their animal productions, for while some exactly
resemble the nearest continents others are widely different. Thus the
quadrupeds, birds and insects of Borneo correspond very closely to those of
the Asiatic continent, while those of Madagascar are extremely unlike
African forms, although the distance from the continent is less in the
latter case than in the former. And if we compare the three great islands
Sumatra, Borneo, and Celebes--lying as it were side by side in the same
ocean--we find that the two former, although furthest apart, have almost
identical productions, while the two latter, though closer together, are
more unlike than Britain and Japan situated in different oceans and
separated by the largest of the great continents.
These examples will illustrate the kind of questions it is the object of
the present work to deal with. Every continent, every country, and every
island on the globe, offers similar problems of greater or less complexity
and interest, and the time has now arrived when their solution can be
attempted with some prospect of success. Many {7} years study of this class
of subjects has convinced me that there is no short and easy method of
dealing with them; because they are, in their very nature, the visible
outcome and residual product of the whole past history of the earth. If we
take the organic productions of a small island, or of any very limited
tract of country, such as a moderate-sized country parish, we have, in
their relations and affinities--in the fact that they are _there_ and
others are _not_ there, a problem which involves all the migrations of
these species and their ancestral forms--all the vicissitudes of climate
and all the changes of sea and land which have affected those
migrations--the whole series of actions and reactions which have determined
the preservation of some forms and the extinction of others,--in fact the
whole history of the earth, inorganic and organic, throughout a large
portion of geological time.
"""
,
"""
We shall perhaps better exhibit the scope and complexity of the subject,
and show that any intelligent study of it was almost impossible till quite
recently, if we concisely enumerate the great mass of facts and the number
of scientific theories or principles which are necessary for its
elucidation.


We require then in the first place an adequate knowledge of the fauna and
flora of the whole world, and even a detailed knowledge of many parts of
it, including the islands of more special interest and their adjacent
continents. This kind of knowledge is of very slow growth, and is still
very imperfect;[2] and in many cases it can {8} never now be obtained owing
to the reckless destruction of forests and with them of countless species
of plants and animals. In the next place we require a true and natural
classification of animals and plants, so that we may know their real
affinities; and it is only now that this is being generally arrived at. We
further have to make use of the theory of "descent with modification" as
the only possible key to the interpretation of the facts of distribution,
and this theory has only been generally accepted within the last twenty
years. It is evident that, so long as the belief in "special creations" of
each species prevailed, no explanation of the complex facts of distribution
_could_ be arrived at or even conceived; for if each species was created
where it is now found no further inquiry can take us beyond that fact, and
there is an end of the whole matter. Another important factor in our
interpretation of the phenomena of distribution, is a knowledge of the
extinct forms that have inhabited each country during the tertiary and
secondary periods of geology. New facts of this kind are daily coming to
light, but except as regards Europe, North America, and parts of India,
they are extremely scanty; and even in the best-known countries the record
itself is often very defective and fragmentary. 
"""
,
"""
Yet we have already obtained remarkable evidence of the migrations of many animals and plants in past ages, throwing an often unexpected light on the actual distribution
of many groups.[3] By this means alone can we obtain positive evidence of
the past migrations of organisms; and when, as too frequently is the case,
this is altogether wanting, we {9} have to trust to collateral evidence and
more or less probable hypothetical explanations. Hardly less valuable is
the evidence of stratigraphical geology; for this often shows us what parts
of a country have been submerged at certain epochs, and thus enables us to
prove that certain areas have been long isolated and the fauna and flora
allowed time for special development. Here, too, our knowledge is
exceedingly imperfect, though the blanks upon the geological map of the
world are yearly diminishing in extent. Lastly, as a most valuable
supplement to geology, we require to know approximately, the depth and
contour of the ocean-bed, since this affords an important clue to the
former existence of now-submerged lands, uniting islands to continents, or
affording intermediate stations which have aided the migrations of many
organisms. This kind of information has only been partially obtained during
the last few years; and it will be seen in the latter part of this volume,
that some of the most recent deep-sea soundings have afforded a basis for
an explanation of one of the most difficult and interesting questions in
geographical biology--the origin of the fauna and flora of New Zealand.


Such are the various classes of evidence that bear directly on the question
of the distribution of organisms; but there are others of even a more
fundamental character, and the importance of which is only now beginning to
be recognised by students of nature.
"""
,
"""
These are, firstly, the wonderful
alterations of climate which have occurred in the temperate and polar
zones, as proved by the evidences of glaciation in the one and of luxuriant
vegetation in the other; and, secondly, the theory of the permanence of
existing continents and oceans. If glacial epochs in temperate lands and
mild climates near the poles have, as now believed by men of eminence,
occurred several times over in the past history of the earth, the effects
of such great and repeated changes, both on the migration, modification,
and extinction, of species, must have been of overwhelming importance--of
more importance perhaps than even the geological changes of sea and land.
It is therefore necessary to consider the evidence for these climatal
changes; {10} and then, by a critical examination of their possible causes,
to ascertain whether they were isolated phenomena, were due to recurrent
cosmical actions, or were the result of a great system of terrestrial
development. The latter is the conclusion we arrive at; and this conclusion
brings with it the conviction, that in the theory which accounts for both
glacial epochs and warm polar climates, we have the key to explain and
harmonize many of the most anomalous biological and geological phenomena,
and one which is especially valuable for the light it throws on the
dispersal and existing distribution of organisms. The other important
theory, or rather corollary from the preceding theory--that of the
permanence of oceans and the general stability of continents throughout all
geological time, is as yet very imperfectly understood, and seems, in fact,
to many persons in the nature of a paradox. The evidence for it, however,
appears to me to be conclusive; and it is certainly the most fundamental
question in regard to the subject we have to deal with: since, if we once
admit that continents and oceans may have changed places over and over
again (as many writers maintain), we lose all power of reasoning on the
migrations of ancestral forms of life, and are at the mercy of every wild
theorist who chooses to imagine the former existence of a now-submerged
continent to explain the existing distribution of a group of frogs or a
genus of beetles.
"""
,
"""
As already shown by the illustrative examples adduced in this chapter, some
of the most remarkable and interesting facts in the distribution and
affinities of organic forms are presented by islands in relation to each
other and to the surrounding continents. The study of the productions of
the Galapagos--so peculiar, and yet so decidedly related to the American
continent--appears to have had a powerful influence in determining the
direction of Mr. Darwin's researches into the origin of species; and every
naturalist who studies them has always been struck by the unexpected
relations or singular anomalies which are so often found to characterize
the fauna and flora of islands. Yet their full importance in connection
with the history of the earth and its inhabitants has hardly yet {11} been
recognised; and it is in order to direct the attention of naturalists to
this most promising field of research, that I restrict myself in this
volume to an elucidation of some of the problems they present to us. By far
the larger part of the islands of the globe are but portions of continents
undergoing some of the various changes to which they are ever subject; and
the correlative proposition, that every portion of our continents has again
and again passed through insular conditions, has not been sufficiently
considered, but is, I believe, the statement of a great and most suggestive
truth, and one which lies at the foundation of all accurate conception of
the physical and organic changes which have resulted in the present state
of the earth.
The indications now given of the scope and purpose of the present volume
renders it evident that, before we can proceed to the discussion of the
remarkable phenomena presented by insular faunas and floras, and the
complex causes which have produced them, we must go through a series of
preliminary studies, adapted to give us a command of the more important
facts and principles on which the solution of such problems depends. The
succeeding eight chapters will therefore be devoted to the explanation of
the mode of distribution, variation, modification, and dispersal, of
species and groups, illustrated by facts and examples; of the true nature
of geological change as affecting continents and islands; of changes of
climate, their nature, causes, and effects; of the duration of geological
time and the rate of organic development.
"""
,
"""
FEW places are more interesting to a traveller from Europe than the town
and island of Singapore, furnishing, as it does, examples of a variety
of Eastern races, and of many different religions and modes of life. The
government, the garrison, and the chief merchants are English; but
the great mass of the population is Chinese, including some of the
wealthiest merchants, the agriculturists of the interior, and most of
the mechanics and labourers. The native Malays are usually fishermen and
boatmen, and they form the main body of the police. The Portuguese of
Malacca supply a large number of the clerks and smaller merchants. The
Klings of Western India are a numerous body of Mahometans, and,
with many Arabs, are petty merchants and shopkeepers. The grooms and
washermen are all Bengalees, and there is a small but highly respectable
class of Parsee merchants. Besides these, there are numbers of Javanese
sailors and domestic servants, as well as traders from Celebes, Bali,
and many other islands of the Archipelago. The harbour is crowded with
men-of-war and trading vessels of many European nations, and hundreds
of Malay praus and Chinese junks, from vessels of several hundred tons
burthen down to little fishing boats and passenger sampans; and the town
comprises handsome public buildings and churches, Mahometan mosques,
Hindu temples, Chinese joss-houses, good European houses, massive
warehouses, queer old Kling and China bazaars, and long suburbs of
Chinese and Malay cottages.


By far the most conspicuous of the various kinds of people in Singapore,
and those which most attract the stranger's attention, are the Chinese,
whose numbers and incessant activity give the place very much the
appearance of a town in China. The Chinese merchant is generally a fat
round-faced man with an important and business-like look. He wears the
same style of clothing (loose white smock, and blue or black trousers)
as the meanest coolie, but of finer materials, and is always clean and
neat; and his long tail tipped with red silk hangs down to his heels.
"""
,
"""
He has a handsome warehouse or shop in town and a good house in the
country. He keeps a fine horse and gig, and every evening may be seen
taking a drive bareheaded to enjoy the cool breeze. He is rich--he
owns several retail shops and trading schooners, he lends money at high
interest and on good security, he makes hard bargains, and gets fatter
and richer every year.


In the Chinese bazaar are hundreds of small shops in which a
miscellaneous collection of hardware and dry goods are to be found, and
where many things are sold wonderfully cheap. You may buy gimlets at
a penny each, white cotton thread at four balls for a halfpenny, and
penknives, corkscrews, gunpowder, writing-paper, and many other
articles as cheap or cheaper than you can purchase them in England. The
shopkeeper is very good-natured; he will show you everything he has, and
does not seem to mind if you buy nothing. He bates a little, but not so
much as the Klings, who almost always ask twice what they are willing to
take. If you buy a few things from him, he will speak to you afterwards
every time you pass his shop, asking you to walk in and sit down, or
take a cup of tea; and you wonder how he can get a living where so many
sell the same trifling articles.


The tailors sit at a table, not on one; and both they and the shoemakers
work well and cheaply. The barbers have plenty to do, shaving heads and
cleaning ears; for which latter operation they have a great array of
little tweezers, picks, and brushes. In the outskirts of the town are
scores of carpenters and blacksmiths. The former seem chiefly to make
coffins and highly painted and decorated clothes-boxes. The latter are
mostly gun-makers, and bore the barrels of guns by hand out of solid
bars of iron. At this tedious operation they may be seen every day, and
they manage to finish off a gun with a flintlock very handsomely. 
"""
,
"""
All about the streets are sellers of water, vegetables, fruit, soup,
and agar-agar (a jelly made of seaweed), who have many cries
as unintelligible as those of London. Others carry a portable
cooking-apparatus on a pole balanced by a table at the other end, and
serve up a meal of shellfish, rice, and vegetables for two or three
halfpence--while coolies and boatmen waiting to be hired are everywhere
to be met with.
In the interior of the island the Chinese cut down forest trees in the
jungle, and saw them up into planks; they cultivate vegetables, which
they bring to market; and they grow pepper and gambir, which form
important articles of export. The French Jesuits have established
missions among these inland Chinese, which seem very successful. I lived
for several weeks at a time with the missionary at Bukit-tima, about the
centre of the island, where a pretty church has been built and there are
about 300 converts. While there, I met a missionary who had just arrived
from Tonquin, where he had been living for many years. The Jesuits still
do their work thoroughly as of old. In Cochin China, Tonquin, and China,
where all Christian teachers are obliged to live in secret, and
are liable to persecution, expulsion, and sometimes death, every
province--even those farthest in the interior--has a permanent Jesuit
mission establishment constantly kept up by fresh aspirants, who are
taught the languages of the countries they are going to at Penang or
Singapore. In China there are said to be near a million converts; in
Tonquin and Cochin China, more than half a million. One secret of
the success of these missions is the rigid economy practised in the
expenditure of the funds. A missionary is allowed about £30. a year, on
which he lives in whatever country he may be. This renders it possible
to support a large number of missionaries with very limited means; and
the natives, seeing their teachers living in poverty and with none of
the luxuries of life, are convinced that they are sincere in what they
teach, and have really given up home and friends and ease and safety,
for the good of others.
"""
,
"""
No wonder they make converts, for it must be a
great blessing to the poor people among whom they labour to have a man
among them to whom they can go in any trouble or distress, who will
comfort and advise them, who visits them in sickness, who relieves
them in want, and who they see living from day-to-day in danger of
persecution and death--entirely for their sakes.


My friend at Bukit-tima was truly a father to his flock. He preached
to them in Chinese every Sunday, and had evenings for discussion and
conversation on religion during the week. He had a school to teach their
children. His house was open to them day and night. If a man came to him
and said, "I have no rice for my family to eat today," he would give
him half of what he had in the house, however little that might be. If
another said, "I have no money to pay my debt," he would give him half
the contents of his purse, were it his last dollar. So, when he was
himself in want, he would send to some of the wealthiest among his
flock, and say, "I have no rice in the house," or "I have given away my
money, and am in want of such and such articles." The result was that
his flock trusted and loved him, for they felt sure that he was their
true friend, and had no ulterior designs in living among them.


The island of Singapore consists of a multitude of small hills, three or
four hundred feet high, the summits of many of which are still covered
with virgin forest. The mission-house at Bukit-tima was surrounded
by several of these wood-topped hills, which were much frequented by
woodcutters and sawyers, and offered me an excellent collecting ground
for insects. Here and there, too, were tiger pits, carefully covered
over with sticks and leaves, and so well concealed, that in several
cases I had a narrow escape from falling into them.
"""
,
"""
They are shaped like an iron furnace, wider at the bottom than the top, and are perhaps
fifteen or twenty feet deep so that it would be almost impossible for
a person unassisted to get out of one. Formerly a sharp stake was stuck
erect in the bottom; but after an unfortunate traveller had been killed
by falling on one, its use was forbidden. There are always a few tigers
roaming about Singapore, and they kill on an average a Chinaman every
day, principally those who work in the gambir plantations, which are
always made in newly-cleared jungle. We heard a tiger roar once or twice
in the evening, and it was rather nervous work hunting for insects among
the fallen trunks and old sawpits when one of these savage animals might
be lurking close by, awaiting an opportunity to spring upon us.
Several hours in the middle of every fine day were spent in these
patches of forest, which were delightfully cool and shady by contrast
with the bare open country we had to walk over to reach them. The
vegetation was most luxuriant, comprising enormous forest trees, as well
as a variety of ferns, caladiums, and other undergrowth, and abundance
of climbing rattan palms. Insects were exceedingly abundant and very
interesting, and every day furnished scores of new and curious forms.
In about two months I obtained no less than 700 species of beetles,
a large proportion of which were quite new, and among them were 130
distinct kinds of the elegant Longicorns (Cerambycidae), so much
esteemed by collectors. Almost all these were collected in one patch of
jungle, not more than a square mile in extent, and in all my subsequent
travels in the East I rarely if ever met with so productive a spot. This
exceeding productiveness was due in part no doubt to some favourable
conditions in the soil, climate, and vegetation, and to the season being
very bright and sunny, with sufficient showers to keep everything
fresh.
"""
,
"""
Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,
Casting to South his eye across the bourne
Of his dominion (where the Palmiped,
With leathers 'twixt his toes, paddles his marsh,
Amphibious) saw a rising cloud of hats,
And heard a faint, far sound of distant cheers
Below the swell of the horizon. "Lo,"
Cried one, "the President! the President!"
All footed webwise then took up the word--
The hill tribes and the tribes lacustrine and
The folk riparian and littoral,
Cried with one voice: "The President! He comes!"
And some there were who flung their headgear up
In emulation of the Southern mob;
While some, more soberly disposed, stood still
And silently had fits; and others made
Such reverent genuflexions as they could,
Having that climate in their bones. Then spake
The Court Dunce, humbly, as became him: "Sire,
If thou, as heretofore thou hast, wilt deign
To reap advantage of a fool's advice
By action ordered after nature's way,
As in thy people manifest (for still
Stupidity's the only wisdom) thou
Wilt get thee straight unto to the border land
To mark the President's approach with such
Due, decent courtesy as it shall seem
We have in custom the best warrant for."


Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,
Eyeing the storm of hats which darkened all
The Southern sky, and hearing far hurrahs
Of an exulting people, answered not.
Then some there were who fell upon their knees,
And some upon their Governor, and sought
Each in his way, by blandishment or force,
To gain his action to their end. "Behold,"
They said, "thy brother Governor to South
Met him even at the gateway of his realm,
Crook-kneed, magnetic-handed and agrin,
Backed like a rainbow--all things done in form
Of due observance and respect. Shall we
Alone of all his servitors refuse
Swift welcome to our master and our lord?"
"""
,
"""
Strolling at sunset in my native land,
With fruits and flowers thick on either hand,
    I crossed a Shadow flung athwart my way,
Emerging on a waste of rock and sand.
"The apples all are gone from here," I said,
"The roses perished and their spirits fled.
    I will go back." A voice cried out: "The man
Is risen who eternally was dead!"
I turned and saw an angel standing there,
Newly descended from the heights of air.
    Sweet-eyed compassion filled his face, his hands
A naked sword and golden trumpet bare.
"Nay, 'twas not death, the shadow that I crossed,"
I said. "Its chill was but a touch of frost.
    It made me gasp, but quickly I came through,
With breath recovered ere it scarce was lost."
'Twas the same land! Remembered mountains thrust
Grayed heads asky, and every dragging gust,
    In ashen valleys where my sons had reaped,
Stirred in familiar river-beds the dust.
Some heights, where once the traveler was shown
The youngest and the proudest city known,
    Lifted smooth ridges in the steely light--
Bleak, desolate acclivities of stone.
Where I had worshiped at my father's tomb,
Within a massive temple's awful gloom,
    A jackal slunk along the naked rock,
Affrighted by some prescience of doom.
Man's vestiges were nowhere to be found,
Save one brass mausoleum on a mound
    (I knew it well) spared by the artist Time
To emphasize the desolation round.
Into the stagnant sea the sullen sun
Sank behind bars of crimson, one by one.
    "Eternity's at hand!" I cried aloud.
"Eternity," the angel said, "is done.
For man is ages dead in every zone;
The angels all are dead but I alone;
    The devils, too, are cold enough at last,
And God lies dead before the great white throne!
'Tis foreordained that I bestride the shore
When all are gone (as Gabriel did before,
    When I had throttled the last man alive)
And swear Eternity shall be no more."
"O Azrael--O Prince of Death, declare
Why conquered I the grave?" I cried. "What rare,
    Conspicuous virtues won this boon for me?"
"You've been revived," he said, "to hear me swear."
"Then let me creep again beneath the grass,
And knock thou at yon pompous tomb of brass.
     If ears are what you want, Charles Crocker's there--
Betwixt the greatest ears, the greatest ass."
He rapped, and while the hollow echoes rang,
Out at the door a curst hyena sprang
     And fled! Said Azrael: "His soul's escaped,"
And closed the brazen portal with a bang.
"""
,
"""
What! Pixley, must I hear you call the roll
Of all the vices that infest your soul?
Was't not enough that lately you did bawl
Your money-worship in the ears of all?[A]
Still must you crack your brazen cheek to tell
That though a miser you're a sot as well?
Still must I hear how low your taste has sunk--
From getting money down to getting drunk?[B]
Who worships money, damning all beside,
And shows his callous knees with pious pride,
Speaks with half-knowledge, for no man e'er scorns
His own possessions, be they coins or corns.
You've money, neighbor; had you gentle birth
You'd know, as now you never can, its worth.
You've money; learning is beyond your scope,
Deaf to your envy, stubborn to your hope.
But if upon your undeserving head
Science and letters had their glory shed;
If in the cavern of your skull the light
Of knowledge shone where now eternal night
Breeds the blind, poddy, vapor-fatted naughts
Of cerebration that you think are thoughts--
Black bats in cold and dismal corners hung
That squeak and gibber when you move your tongue--
You would not write, in Avarice's defense,
A senseless eulogy on lack of sense,
Nor show your eagerness to sacrifice
All noble virtues to one loathsome vice.
You've money; if you'd manners too you'd shame
To boast your weakness or your baseness name.
Appraise the things you have, but measure not
The things denied to your unhappy lot.
He values manners lighter than a cork
Who combs his beard at table with a fork.
Hare to seek sin and tortoise to forsake,
The laws of taste condemn you to the stake
To expiate, where all the world may see,
The crime of growing old disgracefully.
Religion, learning, birth and manners, too,
All that distinguishes a man from you,
Pray damn at will: all shining virtues gain
An added luster from a rogue's disdain.
But spare the young that proselyting sin,
A toper's apotheosis of gin.
If not our young, at least our pigs may claim
Exemption from the spectacle of shame!
"""
,
"""
For by death is wrought greater change than hath been shown.  Whereas
in general the spirit that removed cometh back upon occasion, and is
sometimes seen of those in flesh (appearing in the form of the body
it bore) yet it hath happened that the veritable body without the
spirit hath walked.  And it is attested of those encountering who
have lived to speak thereon that a lich so raised up hath no natural
affection, nor remembrance thereof, but only hate.  Also, it is known
that some spirits which in life were benign become by death evil
altogether.--Hali.
One dark night in midsummer a man waking from a dreamless sleep in a
forest lifted his head from the earth, and staring a few moments into
the blackness, said:  "Catherine Larue."  He said nothing more; no
reason was known to him why he should have said so much.
The man was Halpin Frayser.  He lived in St. Helena, but where he
lives now is uncertain, for he is dead.  One who practices sleeping
in the woods with nothing under him but the dry leaves and the damp
earth, and nothing over him but the branches from which the leaves
have fallen and the sky from which the earth has fallen, cannot hope
for great longevity, and Frayser had already attained the age of
thirty-two.  There are persons in this world, millions of persons,
and far and away the best persons, who regard that as a very advanced
age.  They are the children.  To those who view the voyage of life
from the port of departure the bark that has accomplished any
considerable distance appears already in close approach to the
farther shore.  However, it is not certain that Halpin Frayser came
to his death by exposure.
"""
,
"""
He had been all day in the hills west of the Napa Valley, looking for
doves and such small game as was in season.  Late in the afternoon it
had come on to be cloudy, and he had lost his bearings; and although
he had only to go always downhill--everywhere the way to safety when
one is lost--the absence of trails had so impeded him that he was
overtaken by night while still in the forest.  Unable in the darkness
to penetrate the thickets of manzanita and other undergrowth, utterly
bewildered and overcome with fatigue, he had lain down near the root
of a large madrono and fallen into a dreamless sleep.  It was hours
later, in the very middle of the night, that one of God's mysterious
messengers, gliding ahead of the incalculable host of his companions
sweeping westward with the dawn line, pronounced the awakening word
in the ear of the sleeper, who sat upright and spoke, he knew not
why, a name, he knew not whose.
Halpin Frayser was not much of a philosopher, nor a scientist.  The
circumstance that, waking from a deep sleep at night in the midst of
a forest, he had spoken aloud a name that he had not in memory and
hardly had in mind did not arouse an enlightened curiosity to
investigate the phenomenon.  He thought it odd, and with a little
perfunctory shiver, as if in deference to a seasonal presumption that
the night was chill, he lay down again and went to sleep.  But his
sleep was no longer dreamless.
He thought he was walking along a dusty road that showed white in the
gathering darkness of a summer night.  Whence and whither it led, and
why he traveled it, he did not know, though all seemed simple and
natural, as is the way in dreams; for in the Land Beyond the Bed
surprises cease from troubling and the judgment is at rest.  Soon he
came to a parting of the ways; leading from the highway was a road
less traveled, having the appearance, indeed, of having been long
abandoned, because, he thought, it led to something evil; yet he
turned into it without hesitation, impelled by some imperious
necessity.
"""
,
"""
As he pressed forward he became conscious that his way was haunted by
invisible existences whom he could not definitely figure to his mind.
From among the trees on either side he caught broken and incoherent
whispers in a strange tongue which yet he partly understood.  They
seemed to him fragmentary utterances of a monstrous conspiracy
against his body and soul.
It was now long after nightfall, yet the interminable forest through
which he journeyed was lit with a wan glimmer having no point of
diffusion, for in its mysterious lumination nothing cast a shadow.  A
shallow pool in the guttered depression of an old wheel rut, as from
a recent rain, met his eye with a crimson gleam.  He stooped and
plunged his hand into it.  It stained his fingers; it was blood!
Blood, he then observed, was about him everywhere.  The weeds growing
rankly by the roadside showed it in blots and splashes on their big,
broad leaves.  Patches of dry dust between the wheelways were pitted
and spattered as with a red rain.  Defiling the trunks of the trees
were broad maculations of crimson, and blood dripped like dew from
their foliage.
All this he observed with a terror which seemed not incompatible with
the fulfillment of a natural expectation.  It seemed to him that it
was all in expiation of some crime which, though conscious of his
guilt, he could not rightly remember.  To the menaces and mysteries
of his surroundings the consciousness was an added horror.  Vainly he
sought by tracing life backward in memory, to reproduce the moment of
his sin; scenes and incidents came crowding tumultuously into his
mind, one picture effacing another, or commingling with it in
confusion and obscurity, but nowhere could he catch a glimpse of what
he sought.  The failure augmented his terror; he felt as one who has
murdered in the dark, not knowing whom nor why. 
"""
,
"""
So frightful was the situation--the mysterious light burned with so silent and awful a
menace; the noxious plants, the trees that by common consent are
invested with a melancholy or baleful character, so openly in his
sight conspired against his peace; from overhead and all about came
so audible and startling whispers and the sighs of creatures so
obviously not of earth--that he could endure it no longer, and with a
great effort to break some malign spell that bound his faculties to
silence and inaction, he shouted with the full strength of his lungs!
His voice broken, it seemed, into an infinite multitude of unfamiliar
sounds, went babbling and stammering away into the distant reaches of
the forest, died into silence, and all was as before.  But he had
made a beginning at resistance and was encouraged.  He said:
"I will not submit unheard.  There may be powers that are not
malignant traveling this accursed road.  I shall leave them a record
and an appeal.  I shall relate my wrongs, the persecutions that I
endure--I, a helpless mortal, a penitent, an unoffending poet!"
Halpin Frayser was a poet only as he was a penitent:  in his dream.
Taking from his clothing a small red-leather pocketbook, one-half of
which was leaved for memoranda, he discovered that he was without a
pencil.  He broke a twig from a bush, dipped it into a pool of blood
and wrote rapidly.  He had hardly touched the paper with the point of
his twig when a low, wild peal of laughter broke out at a measureless
distance away, and growing ever louder, seemed approaching ever
nearer; a soulless, heartless, and unjoyous laugh, like that of the
loon, solitary by the lakeside at midnight; a laugh which culminated
in an unearthly shout close at hand, then died away by slow
gradations, as if the accursed being that uttered it had withdrawn
over the verge of the world whence it had come.  But the man felt
that this was not so--that it was near by and had not moved.
"""
,
"""
A strange sensation began slowly to take possession of his body and
his mind.  He could not have said which, if any, of his senses was
affected; he felt it rather as a consciousness--a mysterious mental
assurance of some overpowering presence--some supernatural
malevolence different in kind from the invisible existences that
swarmed about him, and superior to them in power.  He knew that it
had uttered that hideous laugh.  And now it seemed to be approaching
him; from what direction he did not know--dared not conjecture.  All
his former fears were forgotten or merged in the gigantic terror that
now held him in thrall.  Apart from that, he had but one thought:  to
complete his written appeal to the benign powers who, traversing the
haunted wood, might some time rescue him if he should be denied the
blessing of annihilation.  He wrote with terrible rapidity, the twig
in his fingers rilling blood without renewal; but in the middle of a
sentence his hands denied their service to his will, his arms fell to
his sides, the book to the earth; and powerless to move or cry out,
he found himself staring into the sharply drawn face and blank, dead
eyes of his own mother, standing white and silent in the garments of
the grave!
In his youth Halpin Frayser had lived with his parents in Nashville,
Tennessee.  The Fraysers were well-to-do, having a good position in
such society as had survived the wreck wrought by civil war.  Their
children had the social and educational opportunities of their time
and place, and had responded to good associations and instruction
with agreeable manners and cultivated minds.  Halpin being the
youngest and not over robust was perhaps a trifle "spoiled."  He had
the double disadvantage of a mother's assiduity and a father's
neglect.  Frayser pere was what no Southern man of means is not--a
politician.  His country, or rather his section and State, made
demands upon his time and attention so exacting that to those of his
family he was compelled to turn an ear partly deafened by the thunder
of the political captains and the shouting, his own included.
"""
,
"""
Young Halpin was of a dreamy, indolent and rather romantic turn,
somewhat more addicted to literature than law, the profession to
which he was bred.  Among those of his relations who professed the
modern faith of heredity it was well understood that in him the
character of the late Myron Bayne, a maternal great-grandfather, had
revisited the glimpses of the moon--by which orb Bayne had in his
lifetime been sufficiently affected to be a poet of no small Colonial
distinction.  If not specially observed, it was observable that while
a Frayser who was not the proud possessor of a sumptuous copy of the
ancestral "poetical works" (printed at the family expense, and long
ago withdrawn from an inhospitable market) was a rare Frayser indeed,
there was an illogical indisposition to honor the great deceased in
the person of his spiritual successor.  Halpin was pretty generally
deprecated as an intellectual black sheep who was likely at any
moment to disgrace the flock by bleating in meter.  The Tennessee
Fraysers were a practical folk--not practical in the popular sense of
devotion to sordid pursuits, but having a robust contempt for any
qualities unfitting a man for the wholesome vocation of politics.


In justice to young Halpin it should be said that while in him were
pretty faithfully reproduced most of the mental and moral
characteristics ascribed by history and family tradition to the
famous Colonial bard, his succession to the gift and faculty divine
was purely inferential.  Not only had he never been known to court
the muse, but in truth he could not have written correctly a line of
verse to save himself from the Killer of the Wise.  Still, there was
no knowing when the dormant faculty might wake and smite the lyre.
"""
,
"""
In the meantime the young man was rather a loose fish, anyhow.
Between him and his mother was the most perfect sympathy, for
secretly the lady was herself a devout disciple of the late and great
Myron Bayne, though with the tact so generally and justly admired in
her sex (despite the hardy calumniators who insist that it is
essentially the same thing as cunning) she had always taken care to
conceal her weakness from all eyes but those of him who shared it.
Their common guilt in respect of that was an added tie between them.
If in Halpin's youth his mother had "spoiled" him, he had assuredly
done his part toward being spoiled.  As he grew to such manhood as is
attainable by a Southerner who does not care which way elections go
the attachment between him and his beautiful mother--whom from early
childhood he had called Katy--became yearly stronger and more tender.
In these two romantic natures was manifest in a signal way that
neglected phenomenon, the dominance of the sexual element in all the
relations of life, strengthening, softening, and beautifying even
those of consanguinity.  The two were nearly inseparable, and by
strangers observing their manner were not infrequently mistaken for
lovers.
Entering his mother's boudoir one day Halpin Frayser kissed her upon
the forehead, toyed for a moment with a lock of her dark hair which
had escaped from its confining pins, and said, with an obvious effort
at calmness:
"Would you greatly mind, Katy, if I were called away to California
for a few weeks?"
It was hardly needful for Katy to answer with her lips a question to
which her telltale cheeks had made instant reply.  Evidently she
would greatly mind; and the tears, too, sprang into her large brown
eyes as corroborative testimony.
"""
,
"""
"Ah, my son," she said, looking up into his face with infinite
tenderness, "I should have known that this was coming.  Did I not lie
awake a half of the night weeping because, during the other half,
Grandfather Bayne had come to me in a dream, and standing by his
portrait--young, too, and handsome as that--pointed to yours on the
same wall?  And when I looked it seemed that I could not see the
features; you had been painted with a face cloth, such as we put upon
the dead.  Your father has laughed at me, but you and I, dear, know
that such things are not for nothing.  And I saw below the edge of
the cloth the marks of hands on your throat--forgive me, but we have
not been used to keep such things from each other.  Perhaps you have
another interpretation.  Perhaps it does not mean that you will go to
California.  Or maybe you will take me with you?"
It must be confessed that this ingenious interpretation of the dream
in the light of newly discovered evidence did not wholly commend
itself to the son's more logical mind; he had, for the moment at
least, a conviction that it foreshadowed a more simple and immediate,
if less tragic, disaster than a visit to the Pacific Coast.  It was
Halpin Frayser's impression that he was to be garroted on his native
heath.
"Are there not medicinal springs in California?" Mrs. Frayser resumed
before he had time to give her the true reading of the dream--"places
where one recovers from rheumatism and neuralgia?  Look--my fingers
feel so stiff; and I am almost sure they have been giving me great
pain while I slept."
She held out her hands for his inspection.  What diagnosis of her
case the young man may have thought it best to conceal with a smile
the historian is unable to state, but for himself he feels bound to
say that fingers looking less stiff, and showing fewer evidences of
even insensible pain, have seldom been submitted for medical
inspection by even the fairest patient desiring a prescription of
unfamiliar scenes.
"""
,
"""
The outcome of it was that of these two odd persons having equally
odd notions of duty, the one went to California, as the interest of
his client required, and the other remained at home in compliance
with a wish that her husband was scarcely conscious of entertaining.
While in San Francisco Halpin Frayser was walking one dark night
along the water front of the city, when, with a suddenness that
surprised and disconcerted him, he became a sailor.  He was in fact
"shanghaied" aboard a gallant, gallant ship, and sailed for a far
countree.  Nor did his misfortunes end with the voyage; for the ship
was cast ashore on an island of the South Pacific, and it was six
years afterward when the survivors were taken off by a venturesome
trading schooner and brought back to San Francisco.
Though poor in purse, Frayser was no less proud in spirit than he had
been in the years that seemed ages and ages ago.  He would accept no
assistance from strangers, and it was while living with a fellow
survivor near the town of St. Helena, awaiting news and remittances
from home, that he had gone gunning and dreaming.
The apparition confronting the dreamer in the haunted wood--the thing
so like, yet so unlike his mother--was horrible!  It stirred no love
nor longing in his heart; it came unattended with pleasant memories
of a golden past--inspired no sentiment of any kind; all the finer
emotions were swallowed up in fear.  He tried to turn and run from
before it, but his legs were as lead; he was unable to lift his feet
from the ground.  His arms hung helpless at his sides; of his eyes
only he retained control, and these he dared not remove from the
lusterless orbs of the apparition, which he knew was not a soul
without a body, but that most dreadful of all existences infesting
that haunted wood--a body without a soul!  In its blank stare was
neither love, nor pity, nor intelligence--nothing to which to address
an appeal for mercy.  "An appeal will not lie," he thought, with an
absurd reversion to professional slang, making the situation more
horrible, as the fire of a cigar might light up a tomb.
"""
,
"""
A poor brokendown drunkard returned to his dilapidated domicile
early on New Year's morn. The great bells of the churches were
jarring the creamy moonlight which lay above the soggy undercrust of
mud and snow. As he heard their joyous peals, announcing the birth
of a new year, his heart smote his old waistcoat like a remorseful
sledge-hammer.


"Why," soliloquized he, "should not those bells also proclaim the
advent of a new resolution? I have not made one for several weeks,
and it's about time. I'll swear off."


He did it, and at that moment a new light seemed to be shed upon his
pathway; his wife came out of the house with a tin lantern. He
rushed frantically to meet her. She saw the new and holy purpose in
his eye. She recognised it readily-she had seen it before. They
embraced and wept. Then stretching the wreck of what had once been a
manly form to its full length, he raised his eyes to heaven and one
hand as near there as he could get it, and there in the pale
moonlight, with only his wondering wife, and the angels, and a cow
or two, for witnesses, he swore he would from that moment abstain
from all intoxicating liquors until death should them part. Then
looking down and tenderly smiling into the eyes of his wife, he
said: "Is it not well, dear one?" With a face beaming all over with
a new happiness, she replied:


"Indeed it is, John-let's take a drink." And they took one, she with
sugar and he plain.


The spot is still pointed out to the traveller. The Late Dowling,
Senior.


My friend, Jacob Dowling, Esq., had been spending the day very
agreeably in his counting-room with some companions, and at night
retired to the domestic circle to ravel out some intricate accounts.
Seated at his parlour table he ordered his wife and children out of
the room and addressed himself to business. While clambering wearily
up a column of figures he felt upon his cheek the touch of something
that seemed to cling clammily to the skin like the caress of a naked
oyster. Thoughtfully setting down the result of his addition so far
as he had proceeded with it, he turned about and looked up.
"""
,
"""
"I beg your pardon, sir," said he, "but you have not the advantage
of my acquaintance."


"Why, Jake," replied the apparition-whom I have thought it useless
to describe--"don't you know me?"


"I confess that your countenance is familiar," returned my friend,
"but I cannot at this moment recall your name. I never forget a
face, but names I cannot remember."


"Jake!" rumbled the spectre with sepulchral dignity, a look of
displeasure crawling across his pallid features, "you're foolin'."


"I give you my word I am quite serious. Oblige me with your name,
and favour me with a statement of your business with me at this
hour."


The disembodied party sank uninvited into a chair, spread out his
knees and stared blankly at a Dutch clock with an air of weariness
and profound discouragement. Perceiving that his guest was making
himself tolerably comfortable my friend turned again to his figures,
and silence reigned supreme. The fire in the grate burned
noiselessly with a mysterious blue light, as if it could do more if
it wished; the Dutch clock looked wise, and swung its pendulum with
studied exactness, like one who is determined to do his precise duty
and shun responsibility; the cat assumed an attitude of intelligent
neutrality. Finally the spectre trained his pale eyes upon his host,
pulled in a long breath and remarked:


"Jake, I'm yur dead father. I come back to have a talk with ye 'bout
the way things is agoin' on. I want to know 'f you think it's right
notter recognise yur dead parent?"


"It is a little rough on you, dear," replied the son without looking
up, "but the fact is that [7 and 3 are 10, and 2 are 12, and 6 are
18] it is so long since you have been about [and 3 off are 15] that
I had kind of forgotten, and [2 into 4 goes twice, and 7 into 6 you
can't] you know how it is yourself. May I be permitted to again
inquire the precise nature of your present business?"
"""
,
"""
"Well, yes-if you wont talk anything but shop I s'pose I must come
to the p'int. Isay! you don't keep any thing to drink 'bout yer, do
ye-Jake?"


"14 from 23 are 9-I'll get you something when we get done. Please
explain how we can serve one another."


"Jake, I done everything for you, and you ain't done nothin' for me
since I died. I want a monument bigger'n Dave Broderick's, with an
eppytaph in gilt letters, by Joaquin Miller. I can't git into any
kind o' society till I have 'em. You've no idee how exclusive they
are where I am."


This dutiful son laid down his pencil and effected a stiffly
vertical attitude. He was all attention:


"Anything else to-day?" he asked-rather sneeringly, I grieve to
state.


"No-o-o, I don't think of anything special," drawled the ghost
reflectively; "I'd like to have an iron fence around it to keep the
cows off, but I s'pose that's included."


"Of course! And a gravel walk, and a lot of abalone shells, and
fresh posies daily; a marble angel or two for company, and anything
else that will add to your comfort. Have you any other extremely
reasonable request to make of me?"


"Yes-since you mention it. I want you to contest my will. Horace
Hawes is having his'n contested."


"My fine friend, you did not make any will."


"That ain't o' no consequence. You forge me a good 'un and contest
that."


"With pleasure, sir; but that will be extra. Now indulge me in one
question. You spoke of the society where you reside. Where do you
reside?"


The Dutch clock pounded clamorously upon its brazen gong a countless
multitude of hours; the glowing coals fell like an avalanche through
the grate, spilling all over the cat, who exalted her voice in a
squawk like the deathwail of a stuck pig, and dashed affrighted
through the window. A smell of scorching fur pervaded the place, and
under cover of it the aged spectre walked into the mirror, vanishing
like a dream. "Love's Labour Lost."
"""
,
"""
Joab was a beef, who was tired of being courted for his clean,
smooth skin. So he backed through a narrow gateway six or eight
times, which made his hair stand the wrong way. He then went and
rubbed his fat sides against a charred log. This made him look
untidy. You never looked worse in your life than Joab did.


"Now," said he, "I shall be loved for myself alone. I will change my
name, and hie me to pastures new, and all the affection that is then
lavished upon me will be pure and disinterested."


So he strayed off into the woods and came out at old Abner Davis'
ranch. The two things Abner valued most were a windmill and a
scratching-post for hogs. They were equally beautiful, and the fame
of their comeliness had gone widely abroad. To them Joab naturally
paid his attention. The windmill, who was called Lucille Ashtonbury
Clifford, received him with expressions of the liveliest disgust.
His protestations of affection were met by creakings of contempt,
and as he turned sadly away he was rewarded by a sound spank from
one of her fans. Like a gentlemanly beef he did not deign to avenge
the insult by overturning Lucille Ashtonbury; and it is well for him
that he did not, for old Abner stood by with a pitchfork and a
trinity of dogs.


Disgusted with the selfish heartlessness of society, Joab shambled
off and was passing the scratching-post without noticing her. (Her
name was Arabella Cliftonbury Howard.) Suddenly she kicked away a
multitude of pigs who were at her feet, and called to the rolling
beef of uncanny exterior:


"Comeer!"


Joab paused, looked at her with his ox-eyes, and gravely marching
up, commenced a vigorous scratching against her.


"Arabella," said he, "do you think you could love a shaggy-hided
beef with black hair? Could you love him for himself alone?"
"""
,
"""
Arabella had observed that the black rubbed off, and the hair lay
sleek when stroked the right way.


"Yes, I think so; could you?"


This was a poser: Joab had expected her to talk business. He did not
reply. It was only her arch way; she thought, naturally, that the
best way to win any body's love was to be a fool. She saw her
mistake. She had associated with hogs all her life, and this fellow
was a beef! Mistakes must be rectified very speedily in these
matters.


"Sir, I have for you a peculiar feeling; I may say a tenderness.
Hereafter you, and you only, shall scratch against Arabella
Cliftonbury Howard!"


Joab was delighted; he stayed and scratched all day. He was loved
for himself alone, and he did not care for anything but that. Then
he went home, made an elaborate toilet, and returned to astonish
her. Alas! old Abner had been about, and seeing how Joab had worn
her smooth and useless, had cut her down for firewood. Joab gave one
glance, then walked solemnly away into a "clearing," and getting
comfortably astride a blazing heap of logs, made a barbacue of
himself!


After all, Lucille Ashtonbury Clifford, the light-headed windmill,
seems to have got the best of all this. I have observed that the
light-headed commonly get the best of everything in this world;
which the wooden-headed and the beef-headed regard as an outrage. I
am not prepared to say if it is or not. A Comforter.


William Bunker had paid a fine of two hundred dollars for beating
his wife. After getting his receipt he went moodily home and seated
himself at the domestic hearth. Observing his abstracted and
melancholy demeanour, the good wife approached and tenderly inquired
the cause. "It's a delicate subject, dear," said he, with love-
light in his eyes; "let's talk about something good to eat."


Then, with true wifely instinct she sought to cheer him up with
pleasing prattle of a new bonnet he had promised her. "Ah! darling,"
he sighed, absently picking up the fire-poker and turning it in his
hands, "let us change the subject."
"""
,
"""
Then his soul's idol chirped an inspiring ballad, kissed him on the
top of his head, and sweetly mentioned that the dressmaker had sent
in her bill. "Let us talk only of love," returned he, thoughtfully
rolling up his dexter sleeve.


And so she spoke of the vine-enfolded cottage in which she fondly
hoped they might soon sip together the conjugal sweets. William
became rigidly erect, a look not of earth was in his face, his
breast heaved, and the fire-poker quivered with emotion. William
felt deeply. "Mine own," said the good woman, now busily irrigating
a mass of snowy dough for the evening meal, "do you know that there
is not a bite of meat in the house?"


It is a cold, unlovely truth-a sad, heart-sickening fact-but it
must be told by the conscientious novelist. William repaid all this
affectionate solicitude-all this womanly devotion, all this trust,
confidence, and abnegation in a manner that needs not be
particularly specified.


A short, sharp curve in the middle of that iron fire-poker is
eloquent of a wrong redressed. Little Isaac.


Mr. Gobwottle came home from a meeting of the Temperance Legion
extremely drunk. He went to the bed, piled himself loosely atop of
it and forgot his identity. About the middle of the night, his wife,
who was sitting up darning stockings, heard a voice from the
profoundest depths of the bolster: "Say, Jane?"


Jane gave a vicious stab with the needle, impaling one of her
fingers, and continued her work. There was a long silence, faintly
punctuated by the bark of a distant dog. Again that
voice--"Say-Jane!"


The lady laid aside her work and wearily, replied: "Isaac, do go to
sleep; they are off."


Another and longer pause, during which the ticking of the clock
became painful in the intensity of the silence it seemed to be
measuring. "Jane, what's off!" "Why, your boots, to be sure,"
replied the petulant woman, losing patience; "I pulled them off when
you first lay down."
"""
,
"""
Again the prostrate gentleman was still. Then when the candle of the
waking housewife had burned low down to the socket, and the wasted
flame on the hearth was expiring bluely in convulsive leaps, the
head of the family resumed: "Jane, who said anything about boots?"


There was no reply. Apparently none was expected, for the man
immediately rose, lengthened himself out like a telescope, and
continued: "Jane, I must have smothered that brat, and I'm 'fernal
sorry!"


"What brat?" asked the wife, becoming interested.


"Why, ours-our little Isaac. I saw you put 'im in bed last week, and
I've been layin' right onto 'im!"


"What under the sun do you mean?" asked the good wife; "we haven't
any brat, and never had, and his name should not be Isaac if we had.
I believe you are crazy."


The man balanced his bulk rather unsteadily, looked hard into the
eyes of his companion, and triumphantly emitted the following
conundrum: "Jane, look-a-here! If we haven't any brat, what'n
thunder's the use o' bein' married!"


Pending the solution of the momentous problem, its author went out
and searched the night for a whisky-skin.








Passing down Commercial-street one fine day, I observed a lady
standing alone in the middle of the sidewalk, with no obvious
business there, but with apparently no intention of going on. She
was outwardly very calm, and seemed at first glance to be lost in
some serene philosophical meditation. A closer examination, however,
revealed a peculiar restlessness of attitude, and a barely
noticeable uneasiness of expression. The conviction came upon me
that the lady was in distress, and as delicately as possible I
inquired of her if such were not the case, intimating at the same
time that I should esteem it a great favour to be permitted to do
something. The lady smiled blandly and replied that she was merely
waiting for a gentleman. 
"""
,
"""
It was tolerably evident that I was not
required, and with a stammered apology I hastened away, passed clear
around the block, came up behind her, and took up a position on a
dry-goods box; it lacked an hour to dinner time, and I had leisure.
The lady maintained her attitude, but with momently increasing
impatience, which found expression in singular wave-like undulations
of her lithe figure, and an occasional unmistakeable contortion.
Several gentlemen approached, but were successively and politely
dismissed. Suddenly she experienced a quick convulsion, strode
sharply forward one step, stopped short, had another convulsion, and
walked rapidly away. Approaching the spot I found a small iron
grating in the sidewalk, and between the bars two little boot heels,
riven from their kindred soles, and unsightly with snaggy nails.


Heaven only knows why that entrapped female had declined the
proffered assistance of her species-why she had elected to ruin her
boots in preference to having them removed from her feet. Upon that
day when the grave shall give up its dead, and the secrets of all
hearts shall be revealed, I shall know all about it; but I want to
know now. A Tale of Two Feet.


My friend Zacharias was accustomed to sleep with a heated stone at
his feet; for the feet of Mr. Zacharias were as the feet of the
dead. One night he retired as usual, and it chanced that he awoke
some hours afterwards with a well-defined smell of burning leather,
making it pleasant for his nostrils.


"Mrs. Zacharias," said he, nudging his snoring spouse, "I wish you
would get up and look about. I think one of the children must have
fallen into the fire."


The lady, who from habit had her own feet stowed comfortably away
against the warm stomach of her lord and master, declined to make
the investigation demanded, and resumed the nocturnal melody. Mr.
Zacharias was angered; for the first time since she had sworn to
love, honour, and obey, this female was in open rebellion. 
"""
,
"""
He decided upon prompt and vigorous action. He quietly moved over to
the back side of the bed and braced his shoulders against the wall.
Drawing up his sinewy knees to a level with his breast, he placed
the soles of his feet broadly against the back of the insurgent,
with the design of propelling her against the opposite wall. There
was a strangled snort, then a shriek of female agony, and the
neighbours came in.


Mutual explanations followed, and Mr. Zacharias walked the streets
of Grass Valley next day as if he were treading upon eggs worth a
dollar a dozen. The Scolliver Pig.


One of Thomas Jefferson's maxims is as follows: "When angry, count
ten before you speak; if very angry, count a hundred." I once knew a
man to square his conduct by this rule, with a most gratifying
result. Jacob Scolliver, a man prone to bad temper, one day started
across the fields to visit his father, whom he generously permitted
to till a small corner of the old homestead. He found the old
gentleman behind the barn, bending over a barrel that was canted
over at an angle of seventy degrees, and from which issued a cloud
of steam. Scolliver père was evidently scalding one end of a dead
pig-an operation essential to the loosening of the hair, that the
corpse may be plucked and shaven.


"Good morning, father," said Mr. Scolliver, approaching, and
displaying a long, cheerful smile. "Got a nice roaster there?" The
elder gentleman's head turned slowly and steadily, as upon a swivel,
until his eyes pointed backward; then he drew his arms out of the
barrel, and finally, revolving his body till it matched his head, he
deliberately mounted upon the supporting block and sat down upon the
sharp edge of the barrel in the hot steam. Then he replied, "Good
mornin' Jacob. Fine mornin'."
"""
,
"""
"A little warm in spots, I should imagine," returned the son. "Do
you find that a comfortable seat?" "Why-yes-it's good enough for an
old man," he answered, in a slightly husky voice, and with an uneasy
gesture of the legs; "don't make much difference in this life where
we set, if we're good-does it? This world ain't heaven, anyhow, I
s'spose."


"There I do not entirely agree with you," rejoined the young man,
composing his body upon a stump for a philosophical argument. "I
don't neither," added the old one, absently, screwing about on the
edge of the barrel and constructing a painful grimace. There was no
argument, but a silence instead. Suddenly the aged party sprang off
that barrel with exceeding great haste, as of one who has made up
his mind to do a thing and is impatient of delay. The seat of his
trousers was steaming grandly, the barrel upset, and there was a
great wash of hot water, leaving a deposit of spotted pig. In life
that pig had belonged to Mr. Scolliver the younger! Mr. Scolliver
the younger was angry, but remembering Jefferson's maxim, he rattled
off the number ten, finishing up with "You--thief!" Then
perceiving himself very angry, he began all over again and ran up to
one hundred, as a monkey scampers up a ladder. As the last syllable
shot from his lips he planted a dreadful blow between the old man's
eyes, with a shriek that sounded like--"You son of a sea-cook!"


Mr. Scolliver the elder went down like a stricken beef, and his son
often afterward explained that if he had not counted a hundred, and
so given himself time to get thoroughly mad, he did not believe he
could ever have licked the old man. Mr. Hunker's Mourner.
"""
,
"""
Strolling through Lone Mountain cemetery one day my attention was
arrested by the inconsolable grief of a granite angel bewailing the
loss of "Jacob Hunker, aged 67." The attitude of utter dejection,
the look of matchless misery upon that angel's face sank into my
heart like water into a sponge. I was about to offer some words of
condolence when another man, similarly affected, got in before me,
and laying a rather unsteady hand upon the celestial shoulder tipped
back a very senile hat, and pointing to the name on the stone
remarked with the most exact care and scrupulous accent: "Friend of
yours, perhaps; been dead long?"


There was no reply; he continued: "Very worthy man, that Jake; knew
him up in Tuolumne. Good feller-Jake." No response: the gentleman
settled his hat still farther back, and continued with a trifle less
exactness of speech: "I say, young wom'n, Jake was my pard in the
mines. Goo' fell'r I 'bserved!"


The last sentence was shot straight into the celestial ear at short
range. It produced no effect. The gentleman's patience and
rhetorical vigilance were now completely exhausted. He walked round,
and planting himself defiantly in front of the vicarious mourner, he
stuck his hands doggedly into his pockets and delivered the
following rebuke, like the desultory explosions of a bunch of
damaged fire-crackers: "It wont do, old girl; ef Jake knowed how
you's treatin' his old pard he'd jest git up and snatch you bald
headed-he would! You ain't no friend o' his'n and you ain't yur fur
no good-you bet! Now you jest 'sling your swag an' bolt back to
heaven, or I'm hanged ef I don't have suthin' worse'n horse-stealin'
to answer fur, this time."


And he took a step forward. At this point I interfered. A Bit of
Chivalry.
"""
,
"""
At Woodward's Garden, in the city of San Francisco, is a rather
badly chiselled statue of Pandora pulling open her casket of ills.
Pandora's raiment, I grieve to state, has slipped down about her
waist in a manner exceedingly reprehensible. One evening about
twilight, I was passing that way, and saw a long gaunt miner,
evidently just down from the mountains, and whom I had seen before,
standing rather unsteadily in front of Pandora, admiring her shapely
figure, but seemingly afraid to approach her. Seeing me advance, he
turned to me with a queer, puzzled expression in his funny eyes, and
said with an earnestness that came near defeating its purpose, "Good
ev'n'n t'ye, stranger." "Good evening, sir," I replied, after having
analyzed his salutation and extracted the sense of it. Lowering his
voice to what was intended for a whisper, the miner, with a jerk of
his thumb Pandoraward, continued: "Stranger, d'ye hap'n t'know 'er?"
"Certainly; that is Bridget Pandora, a Greek maiden, in the pay of
the Board of Supervisors."


He straightened himself up with a jerk that threatened the integrity
of his neck and made his teeth snap, lurched heavily to the other
side, oscillated critically for a few moments, and muttered:
"Brdgtpnd--." It was too much for him; he went down into his
pocket, fumbled feebly round, and finally drawing out a paper of
purely hypothetical tobacco, conveyed it to his mouth and bit off
about two-thirds of it, which he masticated with much apparent
benefit to his understanding, offering what was left to me. He then
resumed the conversation with the easy familiarity of one who has
established a claim to respectful attention:


"Pardner, couldn't ye interdooce a fel'r's wants tknow'er?"
"Impossible; I have not the honour of her acquaintance." A look of
distrust crept into his face, and finally settled into a savage
scowl about his eyes. "Sed ye knew 'er!" he faltered, menacingly.
"So I do, but I am not upon speaking terms with her, and-in fact she
declines to recognise me." The soul of the honest miner flamed out;
he laid his hand threateningly upon his pistol, jerked himself
stiff, glared a moment at me with the look of a tiger, and hurled
this question at my head as if it had been an iron interrogation
point: "W'at a' yer ben adoin' to that gurl?"
"""
,
"""
I fled, and the last I saw of the chivalrous gold-hunter, he had his
arm about Pandora's stony waist and was endeavouring to soothe her
supposed agitation by stroking her granite head. The Head of the
Family.


Our story begins with the death of our hero. The manner of it was
decapitation, the instrument a mowing machine. A young son of the
deceased, dumb with horror, seized the paternal head and ran with it
to the house.


"There!" ejaculated the young man, bowling the gory pate across the
threshold at his mother's feet, "look at that, will you?"


The old lady adjusted her spectacles, lifted the dripping head into
her lap, wiped the face of it with her apron, and gazed into its
fishy eyes with tender curiosity. "John," said she, thoughtfully,
"is this yours?"


"No, ma, it ain't none o' mine."


"John," continued she, with a cold, unimpassioned earnestness,
"where did you get this thing?"


"Why, ma," returned the hopeful, "that's Pap's."


"John"--and there was just a touch of severity in her voice--"when
your mother asks you a question you should answer that particular
question. Where did you get this?"


"Out in the medder, then, if you're so derned pertikeller," retorted
the youngster, somewhat piqued; "the mowin' machine lopped it off."


The old lady rose and restored the head into the hands of the young
man. Then, straightening with some difficulty her aged back, and
assuming a matronly dignity of bearing and feature, she emitted the
rebuke following:


"My son, the gentleman whom you hold in your hand-any more pointed
allusion to whom would be painful to both of us-has punished you a
hundred times for meddling with things lying about the farm. Take
that head back and put it down where you found it, or you will make
your mother very angry." Deathbed Repentance.
"""
,
"""
An old man of seventy-five years lay dying. For a lifetime he had
turned a deaf ear to religion, and steeped his soul in every current
crime. He had robbed the orphan and plundered the widow; he had
wrested from the hard hands of honest toil the rewards of labour;
had lost at the gaming-table the wealth with which he should have
endowed churches and Sunday schools; had wasted in riotous living
the substance of his patrimony, and left his wife and children
without bread. The intoxicating bowl had been his god-his belly had
absorbed his entire attention. In carnal pleasures passed his days
and nights, and to the maddening desires of his heart he had
ministered without shame and without remorse. He was a bad, bad egg!
And now this hardened iniquitor was to meet his Maker! Feebly and
hesitatingly his breath fluttered upon his pallid lips. Weakly
trembled the pulse in his flattened veins! Wife, children,
mother-in-law, friends, who should have hovered lovingly about his
couch, cheering his last moments and giving him medicine, he had
killed with grief, or driven widely away; and he was now dying alone
by the inadequate light of a tallow candle, deserted by heaven and
by earth. No, not by heaven. Suddenly the door was pushed softly
open, and there entered the good minister, whose pious counsel the
suffering wretch had in health so often derided. Solemnly the man of
God advanced, Bible in hand. Long and silently he stood uncovered in
the presence of death. Then with cold and impressive dignity he
remarked, "Miserable old sinner!"


Old Jonas Lashworthy looked up. He sat up. The voice of that holy
man put strength into his aged limbs, and he stood up. He was
reserved for a better fate than to die like a neglected dog: Mr.
Lashworthy was hanged for braining a minister of the Gospel with a
boot-jack. This touching tale has a moral.
"""
,
"""
I have a friend who was never a church member, but was, and is, a
millionaire-a generous benevolent millionaire-who once went about
doing good by stealth, but with a natural preference for doing it at
his office. One day he took it into his thoughtful noddle that he
would like to assist in the erection of a new church edifice, to
replace the inadequate and shabby structure in which a certain small
congregation in his town then worshipped. So he drew up a
subscription paper, modestly headed the list with "Christian, 2000
dollars," and started one of the Deacons about with it. In a few
days the Deacon came back to him, like the dove to the ark, saying
he had succeeded in procuring a few names, but the press of his
private business was such that he had felt compelled to intrust the
paper to Deacon Smith.


Next day the document was presented to my friend, as nearly blank as
when it left his hands. Brother Smith explained that he (Smith) had
started this thing, and a brother calling himself "Christian," whose
name he was not at liberty to disclose, had put down 2000 dollars.
Would our friend aid them with an equal amount? Our friend took the
paper and wrote "Philanthropist, 1000 dollars," and Brother Smith
went away.


In about a week Brother Jones put in an appearance with the
subscription paper. By extraordinary exertions Brother
Jones-thinking a handsome new church would be an ornament to the
town and increase the value of real estate-had got two brethren, who
desired to remain incog., to subscribe: "Christian" 2000 dollars,
and "Philanthropist" 1000 dollars. Would my friend kindly help along
a struggling congregation? My friend would. He wrote "Citizen, 500
dollars," pledging Brother Jones, as he had pledged the others, not
to reveal his name until it was time to pay.
"""
,
"""
Some weeks afterward, a clergyman stepped into my friend's
counting-room, and after smilingly introducing himself, produced
that identical subscription list.


"Mr. K.," said he, "I hope you will pardon the liberty, but I have
set on foot a little scheme to erect a new church for our
congregation, and three of the brethren have subscribed handsomely.
Would you mind doing something to help along the good work?"


My friend glanced over his spectacles at the proffered paper. He
rose in his wrath! He towered! Seizing a loaded pen he dashed at
that fair sheet and scrabbled thereon in raging characters,
"Impenitent Sinner--Not one cent, by G--!"


After a brief explanatory conference, the minister thoughtfully went
his way. That struggling congregation still worships devoutly in its
original, unpretending temple. A Tale of the Great Quake.


One glorious morning, after the great earthquake of October 21,
1868, had with some difficulty shaken me into my trousers and boots,
I left the house. I may as well state that I left it immediately,
and by an aperture constructed for another purpose. Arrived in the
street, I at once betook myself to saving people. This I did by
remarking closely the occurrence of other shocks, giving the alarm
and setting an example fit to be followed. The example was followed,
but owing to the vigour with which it was set was seldom overtaken.
In passing down Clay-street I observed an old rickety brick
boarding-house, which seemed to be just on the point of honouring
the demands of the earthquake upon its resources. The last shock had
subsided, but the building was slowly and composedly settling into
the ground. As the third story came down to my level, I observed in
one of the front rooms a young and lovely female in white, standing
at a door trying to get out. She couldn't, for the door was locked-I
saw her through the key-hole. With a single blow of my heel I opened
that door, and opened my arms at the same time.
"""
,
"""
"Thank God," cried I, "I have arrived in time. Come to these arms."


The lady in white stopped, drew out an eye-glass, placed it
carefully upon her nose, and taking an inventory of me from head to
foot, replied:


"No thank you; I prefer to come to grief in the regular way."


While the pleasing tones of her voice were still ringing in my ears
I noticed a puff of smoke rising from near my left toe. It came from
the chimney of that house. Johnny.


Johnny is a little four-year-old, of bright, pleasant manners, and
remarkable for intelligence. The other evening his mother took him
upon her lap, and after stroking his curly head awhile, asked him if
he knew who made him. I grieve to state that instead of answering
"Dod," as might have been expected, Johnny commenced cramming his
face full of ginger-bread, and finally took a fit of coughing that
threatened the dissolution of his frame. Having unloaded his throat
and whacked him on the back, his mother propounded the following
supplementary conundrum:


"Johnny, are you not aware that at your age every little boy is
expected to say something brilliant in reply to my former question?
How can you so dishonour your parents as to neglect this golden
opportunity? Think again."


The little urchin cast his eyes upon the floor and meditated a long
time. Suddenly he raised his face and began to move his lips. There
is no knowing what he might have said, but at that moment his mother
noted the pressing necessity of wringing and mopping his nose, which
she performed with such painful and conscientious singleness of
purpose that Johnny set up a war-whoop like that of a
night-blooming tomcat.


It may be objected that this little tale is neither instructive nor
amusing. I have never seen any stories of bright children that were.
The Child's Provider.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Goboffle had a small child, no wife, a large dog, and a house.
As he was unable to afford the expense of a nurse, he was accustomed
to leave the child in the care of the dog, who was much attached to
it, while absent at a distant restaurant for his meals, taking the
precaution to lock them up together to prevent kidnapping. One day,
while at his dinner, he crowded a large, hard-boiled potato down
his neck, and it conducted him into eternity. His clay was taken to
the Coroner's, and the great world went on, marrying and giving in
marriage, lying, cheating, and praying, as if he had never existed.


Meantime the dog had, after several days of neglect, forced an
egress through a window, and a neighbouring baker received a call
from him daily. Walking gravely in, he would deposit a piece of
silver, and receiving a roll and his change would march off
homeward. As this was a rather unusual proceeding in a cur of his
species, the baker one day followed him, and as the dog leaped
joyously into the window of the deserted house, the man of dough
approached and looked in. What was his surprise to see the dog
deposit his bread calmly upon the floor and fall to tenderly licking
the face of a beautiful child!


It is but fair to explain that there was nothing but the face
remaining. But this dog did so love the child! Boys who Began Wrong.


Two little California boys were arrested at Reno for horse thieving.
They had started from Surprise Valley with a cavalcade of thirty
animals, and disposed of them leisurely along their line of march,
until they were picked up at Reno, as above explained. I don't feel
quite easy about those youths-away out there in Nevada without their
Testaments! Where there are no Sunday School books boys are so apt
to swear and chew tobacco and rob sluice-boxes; and once a boy
begins to do that last he might as well sell out; he's bound to end
by doing something bad! I knew a boy once who began by robbing
sluice-boxes, and he went right on from bad to worse, until the last
I heard of him he was in the State Legislature, elected by
Democratic votes. You never saw anybody take on as his poor old
mother did when she heard about it.
"""
,
"""
"Hank," said she to the boy's father, who was forging a bank note in
the chimney corner, "this all comes o' not edgercatin' 'im when he
was a baby. Ef he'd larnt spellin' and ciferin' he never could a-ben
elected."


It pains me to state that old Hank didn't seem to get any thinner
under the family disgrace, and his appetite never left him for a
minute. The fact is, the old gentleman wanted to go to the United
States Senate. A Kansas Incident.


An invalid wife in Leavenworth heard her husband make proposals of
marriage to the nurse. The dying woman arose in bed, fixed her large
black eyes for a moment upon the face of her heartless spouse with a
reproachful intensity that must haunt him through life, and then
fell back a corpse. The remorse of that widower, as he led the
blushing nurse to the altar the next week, can be more easily
imagined than described. Such reparation as was in his power he
made. He buried the first wife decently and very deep down, laying a
handsome and exceedingly heavy stone upon the sepulchre. He
chiselled upon the stone the following simple and touching line:
"She can't get back." Mr. Grile's Girl.


In a lecture about girls, Cady Stanton contrasted the buoyant spirit
of young males with the dejected sickliness of immature women. This,
she says, is because the latter are keenly sensitive to the fact
that they have no aim in life. This is a sad, sad truth! No longer
ago than last year the writer's youngest girl-Gloriana, a skin-milk
blonde concern of fourteen-came pensively up to her father with big
tears in her little eyes, and a forgotten morsel of buttered bread
lying unchewed in her mouth.
"""
,
"""
"Papa," murmured the poor thing, "I'm gettin' awful pokey, and my
clothes don't seem to set well in the back. My days are full of
ungratified longin's, and my nights don't get any better. Papa, I
think society needs turnin' inside out and scrapin'. I haven't got
nothin' to aspire to-no aim; nor anything!"


The desolate creature spilled herself loosely into a cane-bottom
chair, and her sorrow broke "like a great dyke broken."


The writer lifted her tenderly upon his knee and bit her softly on
the neck.


"Gloriana," said he, "have you chewed up all that toffy in two
days?"


A smothered sob was her frank confession.


"Now, see here, Glo," continued the parent, rather sternly, "don't
let me hear any more about 'aspirations'-which are always
adulterated with terra alba-nor 'aims'-which will give you the
gripes like anything. You just take this two shilling-piece and
invest every penny of it in lollipops!"


You should have seen the fair, bright smile crawl from one of that
innocent's ears to the other-you should have marked that face
sprinkle, all over with dimples-you ought to have beheld the tears
of joy jump glittering into her eyes and spill all over her father's
clean shirt that he hadn't had on more than fifteen minutes! Cady
Stanton is impotent of evil in the Grile family so long as the price
of sweets remains unchanged. His Railway.


The writer remembers, as if it were but yesterday, when he edited
the Hang Tree Herald. For six months he devoted his best talent to
advocating the construction of a railway between that place and
Jayhawk, thirty miles distant. The route presented every inducement.
There would be no grading required, and not a single curve would be
necessary. As it lay through an uninhabited alkali flat, the right
of way could be easily obtained. 
"""
,
"""
As neither terminus had other than
pack-mule communication with civilization, the rolling stock and
other material must necessarily be constructed at Hang Tree, because
the people at the other end didn't know enough to do it, and hadn't
any blacksmith. The benefit to our place was indisputable; it
constituted the most seductive charm of the scheme. After six months
of conscientious lying, the company was incorporated, and the first
shovelful of alkali turned up and preserved in a museum, when
suddenly the devil put it into the head of one of the Directors to
inquire publicly what the road was designed to carry. It is needless
to say the question was never satisfactorily answered, and the most
daring enterprise of the age was knocked perfectly cold. That very
night a deputation of stockholders waited upon the editor of the
Herald and prescribed a change of climate. They afterward said the
change did them good. Mr. Gish Makes a Present.
In the season for making presents my friend Stockdoddle Gish, Esq.,
thought he would so far waive his superiority to the insignificant
portion of mankind outside his own waistcoat as to follow one of its
customs. Mr. Gish has a friend-a delicate female of the shrinking
sort-whom he favours with his esteem as a sort of equivalent for the
respect she accords him when he browbeats her. Our hero numbers
among the blessings which his merit has extorted from niggardly
Nature a gaunt meathound, between whose head and body there exists
about the same proportion as between those of a catfish, which he
also resembles in the matter of mouth. As to sides, this precious
pup is not dissimilar to a crockery crate loosely covered with a wet
sheet. In appetite he is liberal and cosmopolitan, loving a dried
sheepskin as well in proportion to its weight as a kettle of soap.
The village which Mr. Gish honours by his residence has for some
years been kept upon the dizzy verge of financial ruin by the
maintenance of this animal.
"""
,
"""
The reader will have already surmised that it was this beast which
our hero selected to testify his toleration of his lady friend.
There never was a greater mistake. Mr. Gish merely presented her a
sheaf of assorted angle-worms, neatly bound with a pink ribbon tied
into a simple knot. The dog is an heirloom and will descend to the
Gishes of the next generation, in the direct line of inheritance. A
Cow-County Pleasantry.
About the most ludicrous incident that I remember occurred one day
in an ordinarily solemn village in the cow-counties. A worthy
matron, who had been absent looking after a vagrom cow, returned
home, and pushing against the door found it obstructed by some heavy
substance, which, upon examination, proved to be her husband. He had
been slaughtered by some roving joker, who had wrought upon him with
a pick-handle. To one of his ears was pinned a scrap of greasy
paper, upon which were scrambled the following sentiments in pencil-
tracks:
"The inqulosed boddy is that uv old Burker. Step litely, stranger,
fer yer lize the mortil part uv wat you mus be sum da. Thers arrest
for the weery! If Burker heddenta wurkt agin me fer Corner I
wuddenta bed to sit on him. Ov setch is the kingum of hevvun! You
don't want to moov this boddy til ime summuns to hold a ninquest.
Orl flesh are gras!"
The ridiculous part of the story is that the lady did not wait to
summon the Coroner, but took charge of the remains herself; and in
dragging them toward the bed she exploded into her face a shotgun,
which had been cunningly contrived to discharge by a string
connected with the body. Thus was she punished for an infraction of
the law. The next day the particulars were told me by the facetious
Coroner himself, whose jury had just rendered a verdict of
accidental drowning in both cases. I don't know when I have enjoyed
a heartier laugh. The Optimist, and What He Died Of.
"""
,
"""
One summer evening, while strolling with considerable difficulty
over Russian Hill, San Francisco, Mr. Grile espied a man standing
upon the extreme summit, with a pensive brow and a suit of clothes
which seemed to have been handed down through a long line of
ancestors from a remote Jew peddler. Mr. Grile respectfully saluted;
a man who has any clothes at all is to him an object of veneration.
The stranger opened the conversation:


"My son," said he, in a tone suggestive of strangulation by the
Sheriff, "do you behold this wonderful city, its wharves crowded
with the shipping of all nations?"


Mr. Grile beheld with amazement.


"Twenty-one years ago-alas! it used to be but twenty," and he wiped
away a tear--"you might have bought the whole dern thing for a
Mexican ounce."


Mr. Grile hastened to proffer a paper of tobacco, which disappeared
like a wisp of oats drawn into a threshing machine.


"I was one among the first who--"


Mr. Grile hit him on the head with a paving-stone by way of changing
the topic.


"Young man," continued he, "do you feel this bommy breeze? There
isn't a climit in the world--"


This melancholy relic broke down in a fit of coughing. No sooner had
he recovered than he leaped into the air, making a frantic clutch at
something, but apparently without success.


"Dern it," hissed he, "there goes my teeth; blowed out again, by
hokey!"


A passing cloud of dust hid him for a moment from view, and when he
reappeared he was an altered man; a paroxysm of asthma had doubled
him up like a nut-cracker.


"Excuse me," he wheezed, "I'm subject to this; caught it crossin'
the Isthmus in '49. As I was a-sayin', there's no country in the
world that offers such inducements to the immygrunt as Californy.
With her fertile soil, her unrivalled climit, her magnificent bay,
and the rest of it, there is enough for all."
"""
,
"""
This venerable pioneer picked a fragmentary biscuit from the street
and devoured it. Mr. Grile thought this had gone on about long
enough. He twisted the head off that hopeful old party, surrendered
himself to the authorities, and was at once discharged. The Root of
Education.


A pedagogue in Indiana, who was "had up" for unmercifully waling the
back of a little girl, justified his action by explaining that "she
persisted in flinging paper pellets at him when his back was
turned." That is no excuse. Mr. Grile once taught school up in the
mountains, and about every half hour had to remove his coat and
scrape off the dried paper wads adhering to the nap. He never
permitted a trifle like this to unsettle his patience; he just kept
on wearing that gaberdine until it had no nap and the wads wouldn't
stick. But when they took to dipping them in mucilage he made a
complaint to the Board of Directors.


"Young man," said the Chairman, "ef you don't like our ways, you'd
better sling your blankets and git. Prentice Mulford tort skule yer
for more'n six months, and he never said a word agin the wads."


Mr. Grile briefly explained that Mr. Mulford might have been brought
up to paper wads, and didn't mind them.


"It ain't no use," said another Director, "the children hev got to
be amused."


Mr. Grile protested that there were other amusements quite as
diverting; but the third Director here rose and remarked:


"I perfeckly agree with the Cheer; this youngster better travel. I
consider as paper wads lies at the root uv popillar edyercation;
ther a necessary adjunck uv the skool systim. Mr. Cheerman, I move
and second that this yer skoolmarster be shot."


Mr. Grile did not remain to observe the result of the voting.
Retribution.
"""
,
"""
A citizen of Pittsburg, aged sixty, had, by tireless industry and
the exercise of rigid economy, accumulated a hoard of frugal
dollars, the sight and feel whereof were to his soul a pure delight.
Imagine his sorrow and the heaviness of his aged heart when he
learned that the good wife had bestowed thereof upon her brother
bountiful largess exceeding his merit. Sadly and prayerfully while
she slept lifted he the retributive mallet and beat in her brittle
pate. Then with the quiet dignity of one who has redressed a
grievous wrong, surrendered himself unto the law this worthy old
man. Let him who has never known the great grief of slaughtering a
wife judge him harshly. He that is without sin among you, let him
cast the first stone-and let it be a large heavy stone that shall
grind that wicked old man into a powder of exceeding impalpability.
The Faithful Wife.


"A man was sentenced to twenty years' confinement for a deed of
violence. In the excitement of the moment his wife sought and
obtained a divorce. Thirteen years afterward he was pardoned. The
wife brought the pardon to the gate; the couple left the spot arm in
arm; and in less than an hour they were again united in the bonds of
wedlock."


Such is the touching tale narrated by a newspaper correspondent. It
is in every respect true; I knew the parties well, and during that
long bitter period of thirteen years it was commonly asked
concerning the woman: "Hasn't that hag trapped anybody yet? She'll
have to take back old Jabe when he gets out." And she did. For
nearly thirteen weary years she struggled nobly against fate: she
went after every unmarried man in her part of the country; but "No,"
said they, "we cannot-indeed we cannot-marry you, after the way you
went back on Jabe. It is likely that under the same circumstances
you would play us the same scurvy trick. G'way, woman!" And so the
poor old heartbroken creature had to go to the Governor and get the
old man pardoned out. Bless her for her steadfast fidelity! Margaret
the Childless.
"""
,
"""
This, therefore, is the story of her:--Some four years ago her
husband brought home a baby, which he said he found lying in the
street, and which they concluded to adopt. About a year after this
he brought home another, and the good woman thought she could stand
that one too. A similar period passed away, when one evening he
opened the door and fell headlong into the room, swearing with
studied correctness at a dog which had tripped him up, but which
upon inspection turned out to be another baby. Margaret's sus-
picion was aroused, but to allay his she hastened to implore him to
adopt that darling also, to which, after some slight hesitation, he
consented. Another twelvemonth rolled into eternity, when one
evening the lady heard a noise in the back yard, and going out she
saw her husband labouring at the windlass of the well with unwonted
industry. As the bucket neared the top he reached down and extracted
another infant, exactly like the former ones, and holding it up,
explained to the astonished matron: "Look at this, now; did you ever
see such a sweet young one go a-campaignin' about the country
without a lantern and a-tumblin' into wells? There, take the poor
little thing in to the fire, and get off its wet clothes." It
suddenly flashed across his mind that he had neglected an obvious
precaution-the clothes were not wet-and he hastily added: "There's
no tellin' what would have become of it, a-climbin' down that rope,
if I hadn't seen it afore it got down to the water."


Silently the good wife took that infant into the house and disrobed
it; sorrowfully she laid it alongside its little brothers and
sister; long and bitterly she wept over the quartette; and then with
one tender look at her lord and master, smoking in solemn silence by
the fire, and resembling them with all his might, she gathered her
shawl about her bowed shoulders and went away into the night. The
Discomfited Demon.
"""
,
"""
I never clearly knew why I visited the old cemetery that night.
Perhaps it was to see how the work of removing the bodies was
getting on, for they were all being taken up and carted away to a
more comfortable place where land was less valuable. It was well
enough; nobody had buried himself there for years, and the skeletons
that were now exposed were old mouldy affairs for which it was
difficult to feel any respect. However, I put a few bones in my
pocket as souvenirs. The night was one of those black, gusty ones in
March, with great inky clouds driving rapidly across the sky,
spilling down sudden showers of rain which as suddenly would cease.
I could barely see my way between the empty graves, and in
blundering about among the coffins I tripped and fell headlong. A
peculiar laugh at my side caused me to turn my head, and I saw a
singular old gentleman whom I had often noticed hanging about the
Coroner's office, sitting cross-legged upon a prostrate tombstone.


"How are you, sir?" said I, rising awkwardly to my feet; "nice
night."


"Get off my tail," answered the elderly party, without moving a
muscle.


"My eccentric friend," rejoined I, mockingly, "may I be permitted to
inquire your street and number?"


"Certainly," he replied, "No. 1, Marle Place, Asphalt Avenue,
Hades."


"The devil!" sneered I.


"Exactly," said he; "oblige me by getting off my tail."


I was a little staggered, and by way of rallying my somewhat dazed
faculties, offered a cigar: "Smoke?"


"Thank you," said the singular old gentleman, putting it under his
coat; "after dinner. Drink?"


I was not exactly prepared for this, but did not know if it would be
safe to decline, and so putting the proffered flask to my lips
pretended to swig elaborately, keeping my mouth tightly closed the
while. "Good article," said I, returning it. He simply remarked,
"You're a fool," and emptied the bottle at a gulp.
"""
,
"""
"And now," resumed he, "you will confer a favour I shall highly
appreciate by removing your feet from my tail."


There was a slight shock of earthquake, and all the skeletons in
sight arose to their feet, stretched themselves and yawned audibly.
Without moving from his seat, the old gentleman rapped the nearest
one across the skull with his gold-headed cane, and they all curled
away to sleep again.


"Sire," I resumed, "indulge me in the impertinence of inquiring your
business here at this hour."


"My business is none of yours," retorted he, calmly; "what are you
up to yourself?"


"I have been picking up some bones," I replied, carelessly.


"Then you are--"


I am--"


"A Ghoul!"


"My good friend, you do me injustice. You have doubtless read very
frequently in the newspapers of the Fiend in Human Shape whose
actions and way of life are so generally denounced. Sire, you see
before you that maligned party!"


There was a quick jerk under the soles of my feet, which pitched me
prone upon the ground. Scrambling up, I saw the old gentleman
vanishing behind an adjacent sandhill as if the devil were after
him. The Mistake of a Life.


The hotel was in flames. Mr. Pokeweed was promptly on hand, and tore
madly into the burning pile, whence he soon emerged with a nude
female. Depositing her tenderly upon a pile of hot bricks, he mopped
his steaming front with his warm coat-tail.


"Now, Mrs. Pokeweed," said he, "where will I be most likely to find
the children? They will naturally wish to get out."


The lady assumed a stiffly vertical attitude, and with freezing
dignity replied in the words following:


"Sir, you have saved my life; I presume you are entitled to my
thanks. If you are likewise solicitous regarding the fate of the
person you have mentioned, you had better go back and prospect round
till you find her; she would probably be delighted to see you. But
while I have a character to maintain unsullied, you shall not stand
there and call me Mrs. Pokeweed!"
"""
,
"""
Just then the front wall toppled outward, and Pokeweed cleared the
street at a single bound. He never learned what became of the
strange lady, and to the day of his death he professed an
indifference that was simply brutal. L. S.


Early one evening in the autumn of '64, a pale girl stood singing
Methodist hymns at the summit of Bush Street hill. She was attired,
Spanish fashion, in a loose overcoat and slippers. Suddenly she
broke off her song, a dark-browed young soldier from the Presidio
cautiously approached, and seizing her fondly in his arms, snatched
away the overcoat, retreating with it to an auction-house on Pacific
Street, where it may still be seen by the benighted traveller, just
a-going for two-and-half-and never gone!


The poor maiden after this misfortune felt a bitter resentment
swelling in her heart, and scorning to remain among her kind in that
costume, took her way to the Cliff House, where she arrived, worn
and weary, about breakfast-time.


The landlord received her kindly, and offered her a pair of his best
trousers; but she was of noble blood, and having been reared in
luxury, respectfully declined to receive charity from a low-born
stranger. All efforts to induce her to eat were equally unavailing.
She would stand for hours on the rocks where the road descends to
the beach, and gaze at the playful seals in the surf below, who
seemed rather flattered by her attention, and would swim about,
singing their sweetest songs to her alone. Passers-by were equally
curious as to her, but a broken lyre gives forth no music, and her
heart responded not with any more long metre hymns.


After a few weeks of this solitary life she was suddenly missed. At
the same time a strange seal was noted among the rest. She was
remarkable for being always clad in an overcoat, which she had
doubtless fished up from the wreck of the French galleon
Brignardello, which went ashore there some years afterward.
"""
,
"""
One tempestuous night, an old hag who had long done business as a
hermitess on Helmet Rock came into the bar-room at the Cliff House,
and there, amidst the crushing thunders and lightnings spilling all
over the horizon, she related that she had seen a young seal in a
comfortable overcoat, sitting pensively upon the pinnacle of Seal
Rock, and had distinctly heard the familiar words of a Methodist
hymn. Upon inquiry the tale was discovered to be founded upon fact.
The identity of this seal could no longer be denied without
downright blasphemy, and in all the old chronicles of that period
not a doubt is even implied.


One day a handsome, dark, young lieutenant of infantry, Don Edmundo
by name, came out to the Cliff House to celebrate his recent
promotion. While standing upon the verge of the cliff, with his
friends all about him, Lady Celia, as visitors had christened her,
came swimming below him, and taking off her overcoat, laid it upon a
rock. She then turned up her eyes and sang a Methodist hymn.


No sooner did the brave Don Edmundo hear it than he tore off his
gorgeous clothes, and cast himself headlong in the billows. Lady
Celia caught him dexterously by the waist in her mouth, and,
swimming to the outer rock, sat up and softly bit him in halves. She
then laid the pieces tenderly in a conspicuous place, put on her
overcoat, and plunging into the waters was never seen more.


Many are the wild fabrications of the poets about her subsequent
career, but to this day nothing authentic has turned up. For some
months strenuous efforts were made to recover the wicked
Lieutenant's body. Every appliance which genius could invent and
skill could wield was put in requisition; until one night the
landlord, fearing these constant efforts might frighten away the
seals, had the remains quietly removed and secretly interred. The
Baffled Asian.
"""
,
"""
One day in '49 an honest miner up in Calaveras county, California,
bit himself with a small snake of the garter variety, and either as
a possible antidote, or with a determination to enjoy the brief
remnant of a wasted life, applied a brimming jug of whisky to his
lips, and kept it there until, like a repleted leech, it fell off.


The man fell off likewise.


The next day, while the body lay in state upon a pine slab, and the
bereaved partner of the deceased was unbending in a game of seven-up
with a friendly Chinaman, the game was interrupted by a familiar
voice which seemed to proceed from the jaws of the corpse: "I say-
Jim!"


Bereaved partner played the king of spades, claimed "high," and
then, looking over his shoulder at the melancholy remains, replied,
"Well, what is it, Dave? I'm busy."


"I say-Jim!" repeated the corpse in the same measured tone.


With a look of intense annoyance, and muttering something about
"people that could never stop dead more'n a minute," the bereaved
partner rose and stood over the body with his cards in his hand.


"Jim," continued the mighty dead, "how fur's this thing gone?"


"I've paid the Chinaman two-and-a-half to dig the grave," responded
the bereaved.


"Did he strike anything?"


The Chinaman looked up: "Me strikee pay dirt; me no bury dead
'Melican in 'em grave. Me keep 'em claim."


The corpse sat up erect: "Jim, git my revolver and chase that
pig-tail off. Jump his dam sepulchre, and tax his camp five dollars
each fer prospectin' on the public domain. These Mungolyun hordes
hez got to be got under. And-I say-Jim! 'f any more serpents come
foolin' round here drive 'em off. 'T'aint right to be bitin' a
feller when whisky's two dollars a gallon. Dern all foreigners,
anyhow!"
"""
,
"""
And the mortal part pulled on its boots. TALL TALK. A Call to
Dinner.


When the starving peasantry of France were bearing with inimitable
fortitude their great bereavement in the death of Louis le Grand,
how cheerfully must they have bowed their necks to the easy yoke of
Philip of Orleans, who set them an example in eating which he had
not the slightest objection to their following. A monarch skilled in
the mysteries of the cuisine must wield the sceptre all the more
gently from his schooling in handling the ladle. In royalty, the
delicate manipulation of an omelette soufflé is at once an evidence
of genius, and an assurance of a tender forbearance in state policy.
All good rulers have been good livers, and if all bad ones have been
the same this merely proves that even the worst of men have still
something divine in them.


There is more in a good dinner than is disclosed by the removal of
the covers. Where the eye of hunger perceives but a juicy roast, the
eye of faith detects a smoking God. A well-cooked joint is redolent
of religion, and a delicate pasty is crisp with charity. The man who
can light his after-dinner Havana without feeling full to the neck
with all the cardinal virtues is either steeped in iniquity or has
dined badly. In either case he is no true man. We stoutly contend
that that worthy personage Epicurus has been shamefully
misrepresented by abstemious, and hence envious and mendacious,
historians. Either his philosophy was the most gentle, genial, and
reverential of antique systems, or he was not an Epicurean, and to
call him so is a deceitful flattery. We hold that it is morally
impossible for a man to dine daily upon the fat of the land in
courses, and yet deny a future state of existence, beatific with
beef, and ecstatic with all edibles. Another falsity of history is
that of Heliogabalus-was it not?-dining off nightingales' tongues.
No true gourmet would ever send this warbler to the shambles so long
as scarcer birds might be obtained.
"""
,
"""
It is a fine natural instinct that teaches the hungry and cadaverous
to avoid the temples of religion, and a short-sighted and
misdirected zeal that would gather them into the sanctuary. Religion
is for the oleaginous, the fat-bellied, chylesaturated devotees of
the table. Unless the stomach be lined with good things, the parson
may say as many as he likes and his truths shall not be swallowed
nor his wisdom inly digested. Probably the highest, ripest, and most
acceptable form of worship is that performed with a knife and fork;
and whosoever on the resurrection morning can produce from amongst
the lumber of his cast-off flesh a thin-coated and elastic stomach,
showing evidences of daily stretchings done in the body, will find
it his readiest passport and best credential. We believe that God
will not hold him guiltless who eats with his knife, but if the
deadly steel be always well laden with toothsome morsels, divine
justice will be tempered with mercy to that man's soul. When the
author of the "Lost Tales" represented Sisyphus as capturing his
guest, the King of Terrors, and stuffing the old glutton with meat
and drink until he became "a jolly, rubicund, tun-bellied Death," he
gave us a tale which needs no hæc fabula docet to point out the
moral.


We verily believe that Shakspeare writ down Fat Jack at his last
gasp, as babbling, not o' green fields, but o' green turtle, and
that that starvling Colley Cibber altered the text from sheer envy
at a good man's death. To die well we must live well, is a familiar
platitude. Morality is, of course, best promoted by the good quality
of our fare, but quantitative excellence is by no means to be
despised. Cæteris paribus, the man who eats much is a better
Christian than the man who eats little, and he who eats little will
pursue a more uninterrupted course of benevolence than he who eats
nothing. On Death and Immortality.
"""
,
"""
Did it ever strike you, dear reader, that it must be a particularly
pleasant thing to be dead? To say nothing hackneyed about the
blessed freedom from the cares and vexations of life--which we cling
to with such tenacity while we can, and which, when we have no
longer the power to hold, we let go all at once, with probably a
feeling of exquisite relief-and to take no account of this latter
probable but totally undemonstrable felicity, it must be what boys
call awfully jolly to be dead.


Here you are, lying comfortably upon your back-what is left of it-in
the cool dark, and with the smell of the fresh earth all about you.
Your soul goes knocking about amongst an infinity of shadowy things,
Lord knows where, making all sorts of silent discoveries in the
gloom of what was yesterday an unknown and mysterious future, and
which, after centuries of exploration, must still be strangely
unfamiliar. The nomadic thing doubtless comes back occasionally to
the old grave-if the body is so fortunate as to possess one-and
looks down upon it with big round eyes and a lingering tenderness.


It is hard to conceive a soul entirely cut loose from the old bones,
and roving rudderless about eternity. It was probably this inability
to mentally divorce soul from substance that gave us that absurdly
satisfactory belief in the resurrection of the flesh. There is said
to be a race of people somewhere in Africa who believe in the
immortality of the body, but deny the resurrection of the soul. The
dead will rise refreshed after their long sleep, and in their
anxiety to test their rejuvenated powers, will skip bodily away and
forget their souls. Upon returning to look for them, they will find
nothing but little blue flames, which can never be extinguished, but
may be carried about and used for cooking purposes. This belief
probably originates in some dim perception of the law of
compensation. In this life the body is the drudge of the spirit; in
the next the situation is reversed.
"""
,
"""
The heaven of the Mussulman is not incompatible with this kind of
immortality. Its delights, being merely carnal ones, could be as
well or better enjoyed without a soul, and the latter might be
booked for the Christian heaven, with only just enough of the body
to attach a pair of wings to. Mr. Solyman Muley Abdul Ben Gazel
could thus enjoy a dual immortality and secure a double portion of
eternal felicity at no expense to anybody.


In fact, there can be no doubt whatever that this theory of a double
heaven is the true one, and needs but to be fairly stated to be
universally received, inasmuch as it supposes the maximum of
felicity for terrestrial good behaviour. It is therefore a sensible
theory, resting upon quite as solid a foundation of fact as any
other theory, and must commend itself at once to the proverbial good
sense of Christians everywhere. The trouble is that some
architectural scoundrel of a priest is likely to build a religion
upon it; and what the world needs is theory-good, solid, nourishing
theory. Music-Muscular and Mechanical.


One cheerful evidence of the decivilization of the Anglo-Saxon race
is the late tendency to return to first principles in art, as
manifested in substituting noise for music. Herein we detect
symptoms of a rapid relapse into original barbarism. The savage who
beats his gong or kettledrum until his face is of a delicate blue,
and his eyes assert themselves like those of an unterrified snail,
believes that musical skill is a mere question of brawn-a matter of
muscle. If not wholly ignorant of technical gymnastics, he has a
theory that a deftness at dumb-bells is a prime requisite in a
finished artist. The advance-in a circle-of civilization has only
partially unsettled this belief in the human mind, and we are
constantly though unconsciously reverting to it.
"""
,
"""
It is true the modern demand for a great deal of music has
outstripped the supply of muscle for its production; but the
ingenuity of man has partially made up for his lack of physical
strength, and the sublimer harmonies may still be rendered with
tolerable effectiveness, and with little actual fatigue to the
artist. As we retrograde towards the condition of Primeval Man-the
man with the gong and kettledrum-the blacksmith slowly reasserts his
place as the interpreter of the maestro.


But there is a limit beyond which muscle, whether that of the arm or
cheek, can no further go, without too great an expenditure of force
in proportion to the volume of noise attainable. And right here the
splendid triumphs of modern invention and discovery are made
manifest; electricity and gunpowder come to the relief of puny
muscle, simple appliance, and orchestras limited by sparse
population. Batteries of artillery thunder exultingly our victory
over Primeval Man, beaten at his own game-signally routed and put to
shame, pounding his impotent gong and punishing his ridiculous
kettledrum in frantic silence, amidst the clash and clang and roar
of modern art. The Good Young Man.


Why is he? Why defaces he the fair page of creation, and why is he
to be continued? This has never been explained; it is one of those
dispensations of Providence the design whereof is wrapped in
profoundest obscurity. The good young man is perhaps not without
excuse for his existence, but society is without excuse for
permitting it. At his time of life to be "good" is to insult
humanity. Goodness is proper to the aged; it is their sole glory;
why should this milky stripling bring it into disrepute? Why should
he be permitted to defile with the fat of his sleek locks a crown
intended to adorn the grizzled pow of his elders?
"""
,
"""
A young man may be manly, gentle, honourable, noble, tender and
true, and nobody will ever think of calling him a good young man.
Your good young man is commonly a sneak, and is very nearly allied
to that other social pest, the "nice young lady." As applied to the
immature male of our kind, the adjective "good" seems to have been
perverted from its original and ordinary signification, and to have
acquired a dyslogistic one. It is a term of reproach, and means, as
nearly as may be, "characterless." That any one should submit to
have it applied to him is proof of the essential cowardice of
Virtue.


We believe the direst ill afflicting civilization is the good young
man. The next direst is his natural and appointed mate, the nice
young lady. If the two might be tied neck and heels together and
flung into the sea, the land would be the fatter for it. The Average
Parson.


Our objection to him is not that he is senseless; this-as it
concerns us not-we can patiently endure. Nor that he is bigoted;
this we expect, and have become accustomed to. Nor that he is
small-souled, narrow, and hypocritical; all these qualities become
him well, sitting easily and gracefully upon him. We protest against
him because he is always "carrying on."


To carry on, in one way or another, seems to be the function of his
existence, and essential to his health. When he is not doing it in
the pulpit he is at it in the newspapers; when both fail him he
resorts to the social circle, the church meeting, the Sunday-school,
or even the street corner. We have known him to disport for half a
day upon the kerb-stone, carrying on with all his might to
whomsoever would endure it.
"""
,
"""
No sooner does a young sick-faced theologue get safely through his
ordination, as a baby finishes teething, than straightway he casts
about him for an opportunity to carry on. A pretext is soon found,
and he goes at it hammer and tongs; and forty years after you shall
find him at the same trick with as simple a faith, as exalted an
expectation, as vigorous an impotence, as the day he began.


His carryings-on are as diverse in kind, as comprehensive in scope,
as those of the most versatile negro minstrel. He cuts as many
capers in a lifetime as there are stars in heaven or grains of sand
in a barrel of sugar. Everything is fish that comes to his net. If a
discovery in science is announced, he will execute you an antic upon
it before it gets fairly cold. Is a new theory advanced-ten to one
while you are trying to get it through your head he will stand on
his own and make mouths at it. A great invention provokes him into a
whirlwind of flip-flaps absolutely bewildering to the secular eye;
while at any exceptional phenomenon of nature, such as an
earthquake, he will project himself frog-like into an infinity of
lofty gymnastic absurdities.


In short, the slightest agitation of the intellectual atmosphere
sets your average parson into a tempest of pumping like the jointed
ligneous youth attached to the eccentric of a boy's whirligig. His
philosophy of life may be boiled down into a single sentence: Carry
on and you will be happy. Did We Eat One Another?


There is no doubt of it. The unwelcome truth has long been
suppressed by interested parties who find their account in playing
sycophant to that self-satisfied tyrant Modern Man; but to the
impartial philosopher it is as plain as the nose upon an elephant's
face that our ancestors ate one another. The custom of the Fiji
Islanders, which is their only stock-in-trade, their only claim to
notoriety, is a relic of barbarism; but it is a, relic of our
barbarism.
"""
,
"""
Man is naturally a carnivorous animal. This none but greengrocers
will dispute. That he was formerly less vegetarian in his diet than
at present, is clear from the fact that market-gardening increases
in the ratio of civilization. So we may safely assume that at some
remote period Man subsisted upon an exclusively flesh diet. Our
uniform vanity has given us the human mind as the ne plus ultra of
intelligence, the human face and figure as the standard of beauty.
Of course we cannot deny to human fat and lean an equal superiority
over beef, mutton, and pork. It is plain that our meat-eating
ancestors would think in this way, and, being unrestrained by the
mawkish sentiment attendant upon high civilization, would act
habitually upon the obvious suggestion. A priori, therefore, it is
clear that we ate ourselves.


Philology is about the only thread which connects us with the
prehistoric past. By picking up and piecing out the scattered
remnants of language, we form a patchwork of wondrous design. Oblige
us by considering the derivation of the word "sarcophagus," and see
if it be not suggestive of potted meats. Observe the significance of
the phrase "sweet sixteen." What a world of meaning lurks in the
expression "she is sweet as a peach," and how suggestive of luncheon
are the words "tender youth." A kiss itself is but a modified bite,
and when a young girl insists upon making a "strawberry mark" upon
the back of your hand, she only gives way to an instinct she has not
yet learned to control. The fond mother, when she says her babe is
almost "good enough to eat," merely shows that she herself is only a
trifle too good to eat it.


These evidences might be multiplied ad infinitum; but if enough has
been said to induce one human being to revert to the diet of his
ancestors, the object of this essay is accomplished. Your Friend's
Friend.
"""
,
"""
If there is any individual who combines within himself the vices of
an entire species it is he. A mother-in-law has usually been thought
a rather satisfactory specimen of total depravity; it has been
customary to regard your sweetheart's brother as tolerably vicious
for a young man; there is excellent authority for looking upon your
business partner as not wholly without merit as a nuisance-but your
friend's friend is as far ahead of these in all that constitutes a
healthy disagreeableness as they themselves are in advance of the
average reptile or the conventional pestilence.


We do not propose to illustrate the great truth we have in hand by
instances; the experience of the reader will furnish ample evidence
in support of our proposition, and any narration of pertinent facts
could only quicken into life the dead ghosts of a thousand sheeted
annoyances to squeak and gibber through a memory studded thick with
the tombstones of happy hours murdered by your friend's friend.


Also, the animal is too well known to need a description. Imagine a
thing in all essential particulars the exact reverse of a desirable
acquaintance, and you have his mental photograph. How your friend
could ever admire so hopeless and unendurable a bore is a problem
you are ever seeking to solve. Perhaps you may be assisted in it by
a previous solution of the kindred problem-how he could ever feel
affection for yourself? Perhaps your friend's friend is equally
exercised over that question. Perhaps from his point of view you are
your friend's friend. Le Diable est aux Vaches.
"""
,
"""
If it be that ridicule is the test of truth, as Shaftesbury is
reported to have said and didn't, the doctrine of Woman Suffrage is
the truest of all faiths. The amount of really good ridicule that
has been expended upon this thing is appalling, and yet we are
compelled to confess that to all appearance "the cause" has been
thereby shorn of no material strength, nor bled of its vitality. And
shall it be admitted that this potent argument of little minds is as
powerless as the dullards of all ages have steadfastly maintained?
Forbid it, Heaven! the gimlet is as proper a gimlet as any in all
Christendom, but the timber is too hard to pierce! Grant ye that
"the movement" is waxing more wondrous with each springing sun, who
shall say what it might not have been but for the sharp hatcheting
of us wits among its boughs? If the doctor have not cured his
patient by to-morrow he may at least claim that without the physic
the man would have died to-day.


And pray who shall search the vitals of a whale with a bodkin-who
may reach his jackknife through the superposed bubber? Pachyderm,
thy name is Woman! All the king's horses and all the king's men
shall not bend the bow that can despatch a clothyard shaft through
thy pearly hide. The male and female women who nightly howl their
social and political grievances into the wide ear of the universe
are as insensible to the prickings of ridicule as they are
unconscious of logic. An intellectual Goliah of Gath might spear
them with an epigram like unto a weaver's beam, and the sting
thereof would be as but the nipping of a red ant. Apollo might speed
among them his silver arrows, which erst heaped the Phrygian shores
with hecatombs of Argive slain, and they would but complain of the
mosquito's beak. Your female reformer goes smashing through society
like a tipsy rhinoceros among the tulip beds, and all the torrent of
brickbats rained upon her skin is shed, as globules of mercury might
be supposed to run off the back of a dry drake.
"""
,
"""
One of the rarest amusements in life is to go about with an icicle
suspended by a string, letting it down the necks of the unwary. The
sudden shrug, the quick frightened shudder, the yelp of apprehension
are sources of a pure, because diabolical, delight. But these
women-you may practise your chilling joke upon one of them, and she
will calmly wonder where you got your ice, and will pen with
deliberate fingers an ungrammatical resolution denouncing
congelation as tyrannical and obsolete.


We despair of ever dispelling these creatures by pungent
pleasantries-of routing them by sharp censure. They are, apparently,
to go on practically unmolested to the end. Meantime we are cast
down with a mighty proneness along the dust; our shapely anatomy is
clothed in a jaunty suit of sackcloth liberally embellished with the
frippery of ashes; our days are vocal with wailing, our nights
melodious with snuffle!


Brethren, let us pray that the political sceptre may not pass from
us into the jewelled hands which were intended by nature for the
clouting of babes and sucklings. Angels and Angles.


When abandoned to her own devices, the average female has a tendency
to "put on her things," and to contrive the same, in a manner that
is not conducive to patience in the male beholder. Her besetting
iniquity in this particular is a fondness for angles, and she is
unwavering in her determination to achieve them at whatever cost.


Now we vehemently affirm that in woman's apparel an angle is an
offence to the male eye, and therefore a crime of no small
magnitude. In the masculine garb angles are tolerable-angles of
whatever acuteness. The masculine character and life are rigid and
angular, and the apparel should, or at least may, proclaim the man.
But with the soft, rounded nature of woman, her bending flexibility
of temper, angles are absolutely incompatible. In her outward
seeming all should be easy and flowing-every fold a nest of graces,
and every line a curve.
"""
,
"""
By close attention to this great truth, and a conscientious striving
after its advantages, woman may hope to become rather comely of
exterior, and to find considerable favour in the eyes of man. It is
not impossible that, without any abatement of her present
usefulness, she may come to be regarded as actually ornamental, and
even attractive. If with her angles she will also renounce some
hundreds of other equally harassing absurdities of attire, she may
consider her position assured, and her claim to masculine toleration
reasonably well grounded. A Wingless Insect.


It would be profitable in the end if man would take a hint from his
lack of wings, and settle down comfortably into the assurance that
midair is not his appointed element. The confession is a humiliating
one, but there is a temperate balm in the consciousness that his
inability to "shave with level wing" the blue empyrean cannot justly
be charged upon himself. He has done his endeavour, and done it
nobly; but he'll break his precious neck.


In Goldsmith's veracious "History of Animated Nature" is a sprightly
account of one Nicolas, who was called, if our memory be not at
fault, the man-fish, and who was endowed by his Creator-the late Mr.
Goldsmith aforesaid-with the power of conducting an active existence
under the sea. That equally veracious and instructive work "The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments," peoples the bottom of old ocean
with powerful nations of similarly gifted persons; while in our own
day "the Man-Frog" has taught us what may be done in this line when
one has once got the knack of it.


Some years since (we do not know if he has yet suffered martyrdom at
the hand of the fiendish White) there lived a noted Indian chieftain
whose name, being translated, signifies "The-
Man-Who-Walks-Under-the-Ground," probably a lineal descendant of the
gnomes. We have ourselves walked under the ground in wine cellars.
"""
,
"""
With these notable examples in mind, we are not prepared to assert
that, though man has as a rule neither the gills of a fish nor the
nose of a mole, he may not enjoy a drive at the bottom of the sea,
or a morning ramble under the subsoil. But with the exception of
Peter Wilkins' Flying Islanders-whose existence we vehemently
dispute-and some similar creatures whom it suits our purpose to
ignore, there is no record of any person to whom the name of
The-Man-Who-Flies-Over-the-Hills may be justly applied. We make no
account of the shallow device of Mongolfier, nor the dubious
contrivance of Marriott. A gentleman of proper aspirations would
scorn to employ either, as the Man-Frog would reject a diving-bell,
or the subterranean chieftain would sneer at the Mont Cenis tunnel.
These "weak inventions" only emphasize our impotence to strive with
the subtle element about and above. They prove nothing so
conclusively as that we can't fly-a fact still more strikingly
proven by the constant thud of people tumbling out of them. To a
Titan of comprehensive ear, who could catch the noises of a world
upon his single tympanum as Hector caught Argive javelins upon his
shield, the patter of dropping aëronauts would sound like the gentle
pelting of hailstones upon a dusty highway-so thick and fast they
fall.


It is probable that man is no more eager to float free into space
than the earth-if it be sentient-is to shake him off; but it would
appear that he and it must, like the Siamese twins, consent to
endure the disadvantages of a mutually disagreeable intimacy. We
submit that it is hardly worth his while to continue "larding the
lean earth" with his carcase in the vain endeavour to emulate
angels, whom in no respect he at all resembles. Pork on the Hoof.
"""
,
"""
The motto aut Cæsar aut nullus is principally nonsense, we take it.
If one may not be a man, one may, in most cases, be a hog with equal
satisfaction to his mind and heart.


There is Thompson Washington Smith, for example (his name is not
Thompson, nor Washington, nor yet Smith; we call him so to conceal
his real name, which is perhaps Smythe). Now Thompson, there is
reason to believe, tried earnestly for some years to be a man. Alas!
he began while he was a boy, and got exhausted before he arrived at
maturity. He could make no further effort, and manhood is not
acquired without a mighty struggle, nor maintained without untiring
industry. So having fatigued himself before reaching the
starting-point, Thompson Washington did not re-enter the race for
manhood, but contented his simple soul with achieving a modest
swinehood. He became a hog of considerable talent and promise.


Let it not be supposed that Thompson has anything in common with
the typical, ideal hog-him who encrusts his hide with clay, and
inhumes his muzzle in garbage. Far from it; he is a cleanly-almost a
godly-hog, preternaturally fair of exterior, and eke fastidious of
appetite. He is glossy of coat, stainless of shirt, immaculate of
trousers. He is shiny of beaver and refulgent of boot. With all, a
Hog. Watch him ten minutes under any circumstances and his face
shall seem to lengthen and sharpen away, split at the point, and
develop an unmistakeable snout. A ridge of bristles will struggle
for sunlight under the gloss of his coat. This is your imagination,
and that is about as far as it will take you. So long as Thompson
Washington, actual, maintains a vertical attitude, Thompson
Washington, unreal, will not assume an horizontal one. Your fancy
cannot "go the whole hog."
"""
,
"""
It only remains to state explicitly to whom we are alluding. Well,
there is a stye in the soul of every one of us, in which abides a
porker more or less objectionable. We don't all let him range at
large, like Smith, but he will occasionally exalt his visage above
the rails of even the most cleverly constructed pen. The best of us
are they who spend most time repressing the beast by rapping him
upon the nose. The Young Person.


We are prepared, not perhaps to prove, but to maintain, that
civilization would be materially aided and abetted by the offer of a
liberal reward for the scalps of Young Persons with the ears
attached. Your regular Young Person is a living nuisance, whose
every act is a provocation to exterminate her. We say "her," not
because, physically considered, the Y. P. is necesarily of the she
sex; more commonly is it an irreclaimable male; but morally and
intellectually it is an unmixed female. Her virtues are merely
milk-and-morality-her intelligence is pure spiritual whey. Her
conversation (to which not even her own virtues and intelligence are
in any way related) is three parts rain-water that has stood too
long and one part cider that has not stood long enough-a sickening,
sweetish compound, one dose of which induces in the mental stomach a
colicky qualm, followed, if no correctives be taken, by violent
retching, coma, and death.


The Young Person vegetates best in the atmosphere of parlours and
ball-rooms; if she infested the fields and roadsides like the
squirrels, lizards, and mud-hens, she would be as ruthlessly
exterminated as they. Every passing sportsman would fill her with
duck-shot, and every strolling gentleman would step out of his way
to smite off her head with his cane, as one decapitates a thistle.
But in the drawing-room one lays off his destructiveness with his
hat and gloves, and the Young Person enjoys the same immunity that a
sleepy mastiff grants to the worthless kitten campaigning against
his nose.
"""
,
"""
But there is no good reason why the Spider should be destroyed and
the Young Person tolerated. A Certain Popular Fallacy.


The world makes few graver mistakes than in supposing a man must
necessarily possess all the cardinal virtues because he has a big
dog and some dirty children.


We know a butcher whose children are not merely dirty-they are
fearfully and wonderfully besmirched by the hand of an artist. He
has, in addition, a big dog with a tendency to dropsy, who flies at
you across the street with such celerity that he outruns his bark by
a full second, and you are warned of your danger only after his
teeth are buried in your leg. And yet the owner of these children
and father of this dog is no whit better, to all appearance, than a
baker who has clean brats and a mild poodle. He is not even a good
butcher; he hacks a rib and lacerates a sirloin. He talks through
his nose, which turns up to such an extent that the voice passes
right over your head, and you have to get on a table to tell whether
he is slandering his dead wife or swearing at yourself.


If that man possessed a thousand young ones, exaltedly nasty, and
dogs enough to make a sub-Atlantic cable of German sausage, you
would find it difficult to make us believe in him. In fact, we look
upon the big dog test of morality as a venerable mistake-natural but
erroneous; and we regard dirty children as indispensable in no other
sense than that they are inevitable. Pastoral Journalism.


There shall be joy in the household of the country editor what time
the rural mind shall no longer crave the unhealthy stimuli afforded
by fascinating accounts of corpulent beets, bloated pumpkins,
dropsical melons, aspiring maize, and precocious cabbages. Then the
bucolic journalist shall have surcease of toil, and may go out upon
the meads to frisk with kindred lambs, frolic familiarly with
loose-jointed colts, and exchange grave gambollings with solemn
cows. Then shall the voice of the press, no longer attuned to the
praises of the vegetable kingdom, find a more humble, but not less
useful, employment in calling the animal kingdom to the evening meal
beneath the sanctum window.
"""
,
"""
To the over-worked editor life will have a fresh zest and a new
significance. The hills shall hump more greenly upward to a bluer
sky, the fields blush with a more tender sunshine. He will go forth
at dawn with countless flipflaps of gymnastic joy; and when the
white sun shall redden with the blood of dying day, and the hogs
shall set up a fine evening hymn of supplication to the Giver of
Swill, he will stand upon the editorial head, blissfully conscious
that his intellect is a-ripening for the morrow's work.


The rural newspaper! We sit with it in hand, running our fingers
over the big staring letters, as over the black and white keys of a
piano, drumming out of them a mild melody of perfect repose. With
what delight do we disport us in the illimitable void of its
nothingness, as who should swim in air! Here is nothing to
startle-nothing to wound. The very atmosphere is saturated with "the
spirit of the rural press;" and even our dog stands by, with pendant
tail, slowly dropping the lids over his great eyes; and then,
jerking them suddenly up again, tries to look as if he were not
sleepy in the least. A pleasant smell of ploughed ground comes
strong upon us. The tinkle of ghostly cow-bells falls drowsily upon
the ear. Airy figures of phenomenal esculents float dreamily before
our half-shut eyes, and vanish ere perfect vision can catch them.
About and above are the drone of bees, and the muffled thunder of
milk streams shooting into the foaming pail. The gabble of distant
geese is faintly marked off by the bark of a distant dog. The city
with its noises sinks away from our feet as from one in a balloon,
and our senses are steeped in country languor. We slumber.
"""
,
"""
God bless the man who first invented the country newspaper!-though
Sancho Panza blessed him once before. Mendicity's Mistake.


Your famishing beggar is a fish of as sorry aspect as may readily be
scared up. Generally speaking, he is repulsive as to hat, abhorrent
as to vesture, squalid of boot, and in tout ensemble unseemly and
atrocious. His appeal for alms falls not more vexingly upon the ear
than his offensive personality smites hard upon the eye. The
touching effectiveness of his tale is ever neutralized by the
uncomeliness of his raiment and the inartistic besmirchedness of his
countenance. His pleading is like the pathos of some moving ballad
from the lips of a negro minstrel; shut your eyes and it shall make
you fumble in your pocket for your handkerchief; open them, and you
would fain draw out a pistol instead.


It is to be wished that Poverty would garb his body in a clean skin,
that Adversity would cultivate a taste for spotless linen, and that
Beggary would address himself unto your pocket from beneath a downy
hat. However, we cannot hope to immediately impress these worthy
mendicants with the advantage of devoting a portion of their gains
to the purchase of purple and fine linen, instead of expending their
all upon the pleasures of the table and riotous living; but our duty
unto them remains.


The very least that one can do for the offensive needy is to direct
them to the nearest clothier. That, therefore, is the proper course.
Insects.


Every one has observed, a solitary ant breasting a current of his
fellows as he retraces his steps to pack off something he has
forgotten. At each meeting with a neighbour there is a mutual pause,
and the two confront each other for a moment, reaching out their
delicate antennæ, and making a critical examination of one another's
person. This the little creature repeats with tireless persistence
to the end of his journey.
"""
,
"""
As with the ant, so with the other insect-the sprightly "female of
our species." It is really delightful to watch the fine frenzy of
her lovely eye as she notes the approach of a woman more gorgeously
arrayed than herself, or the triumphant contempt that settles about
her lips at the advance of a poorly clad sister. How contemplatively
she lingers upon each detail of attire-with what keen penetration
she takes in the general effect at a sweep!


And this suggests the fearful thought-what would the darlings do if
they wore no clothes? One-half their pleasure in walking on the
street would vanish like a dream, and an equal proportion of the
philosopher's happiness in watching them would perish in the barren
prospect of an inartistic nudity. Picnicking considered as a
Mistake.


Why do people attend public picnics? We do not wish to be iterative,
but why do they? Heaven help them! it is because they know no
better, and no one has had the leisure to enlighten them.


Now your picnic-goer is a muff-an egregious, gregarious muff, and a
glutton. Moreover, a nobody who, if he be male wears, in nine cases
in ten, a red necktie and a linen duster to his heel; if she be
female hath soiled hose to her calf, and in her face a premonition
of colic to come.


We hold it morally impossible to attend a picnic and come home pure
in heart and undefiled of cuticle. For the dust will get in your
nose, clog your ears, make clay in your mouth and mortar in your
eyes, and so stop up all the natural passages to the soul; whereby
the wickedness which that subtle organ doth constantly excrete is
balked of its issue, tainting the entire system with a grievous
taint.
"""
,
"""
At picnics, moreover, is engendered an unpleasant perspiration,
which the patient must perforce endure until he shall bathe him in a
bath. It is not sweet to reek, and your picnicker must reek. Should
he chance to break a leg, or she a limb, the inevitable exposure of
the pedal condition is alarming and eke humiliating. Thanksgiving
Day.


There be those of us whose memories, though vexed with an
oyster-rake would not yield matter for gratitude, and whose piety
though strained through a sieve would leave no trace of an object
upon which to lavish thanks. It is easy enough, with a waistcoat
selected for the occasion, to eat one's proportion of turkey and
hide away one's allowance of wine; and if this be returning thanks,
why then gratitude is considerably easier, and vastly more
agreeable, than falling off a log, and may be acquired in one easy
lesson without a master. But if more than this be required-if to be
grateful means anything beyond being gluttonous, your true
philosopher--he of the severe brow upon which logic has stamped its
eternal impress, and from whose heart sentiment has been banished
along with other small vices-your true philosopher, say we, will
think twice before he "crooks the pregnant hinges of the knee" in
humble observance of the day.


For here is the nut of reason he is obliged to crack before he can
obtain the kernel of emotion proper to the day. Unless the blessings
we enjoy are favours from the Omnipotent, to be grateful is to be
absurd. If they are, then, also the ills with which we are afflicted
have the same origin. Grant this, and you make an offset of the
latter against the former, or are driven either to the ridiculous
position that we must be equally grateful for both evils and
blessings, or the no less ridiculous one that all evils are
blessings in disguise.
"""
,
"""
But the truth is, my fine friend, your annual gratitude is a sorry
sham, a cloak, my good fellow, to cover your unhandsome gluttony;
and when by chance you do take to your knees, it is only that you
prefer to digest your bird in that position. We understand your case
accurately, and the hard sense we are poking at you is not a
preachment for your edification, but a bit of harmless fun for our
own diversion. For, look you! there is really a subtle but potent
relation between the gratitude of the spirit and the stuffing of the
flesh.


We have ever taught the identity of Soul and Stomach; these are but
different names for one object considered under differing aspects.
Thankfulness we believe to be a kind of ether evolved by the action
of the gastric fluid upon rich meats. Like all gases it ascends, and
so passes out of the esophagus in prayer and psalmody. This
beautiful theory we have tested by convincing experiments in the
manner following:--


Experiment 1st.--A quantity of grass was placed in a large bladder,
and a gill of the gastric fluid of a sheep introduced. In ten
minutes the neck of the bladder emitted a contented bleat.


Experiment 2nd.--A pound of beef was substituted for the grass, and
the fluid of a dog for that of the sheep. The result was a cheerful
bark, accompanied by an agitation of the bottom of the bladder, as
if it were attempting to wag an imaginary tail.


Experiment 3rd.--The bladder was charged with a handful of chopped
turkey, and an ounce of human gastric juice obtained from the
Coroner. At first, nothing but a deep sigh of satisfaction escaped
from the neck of the bladder, followed by an unmistakeable grunt,
similar to that of a hog. Upon increasing the proportion of turkey,
and confining the gas, the bladder was very much distended,
appearing to suffer great uneasiness. The restriction being removed,
the neck distinctly articulated the words "Praise God, from whom all
blessings flow!"
"""
,
"""
Against such demonstration as this any mere theological theorizing
is of no avail. Flogging.


It may justly be demanded of the essayist that he shall give some
small thought to the question of corporal punishment by means of the
"cat," and "ground-ash." We have given the subject the most
elaborate attention; we have written page after page upon it. Day
and night we have toiled and perspired over that distressing
problem. Through Summer's sun and Winter's snow, with all
unfaltering purpose, we have strung miles of ink upon acres of
paper, weaving wisdom into eloquence with the tireless industry of a
silkworm fashioning his cocoon. We have refused food, scorned sleep,
and endured thirst to see our work grow beneath our cunning hand.
The more we wrote the wiser we became; the opinions of one day were
rejected the next; the blind surmising of yesterday ripened into the
full knowledge of to-day, and this matured into the superhuman
omniscience of this evening. We have finally got so infernally
clever that we have abandoned the original design of our great work,
and determined to make it a compendium of everything that is
accurately known up to date, and the bearing of this upon flogging
in general.


To other, and inferior, writers it is most fortunate that our design
has taken so wide a scope. These can go on with their perennial
wrangle over the petty question of penal and educational
flagellation, while we grapple with the higher problem, and unfold
the broader philosophy of an universal walloping. Reflections upon
the Beneficent Influence of the Press.
"""
,
"""
Once upon a time in a certain country there lived a king whose palace
was surrounded by a spacious garden. But, though the gardeners were many
and the soil was good, this garden yielded neither flowers nor fruits,
not even grass or shady trees.


The King was in despair about it, when a wise old man said to him:


"Your gardeners do not understand their business: but what can you
expect of men whose fathers were cobblers and carpenters? How should
they have learned to cultivate your garden?"


"You are quite right," cried the King.


"Therefore," continued the old man, "you should send for a gardener
whose father and grandfather have been gardeners before him, and very
soon your garden will be full of green grass and gay flowers, and you
will enjoy its delicious fruit."


So the King sent messengers to every town, village, and hamlet in his
dominions, to look for a gardener whose forefathers had been gardeners
also, and after forty days one was found.


"Come with us and be gardener to the King," they said to him.


"How can I go to the King," said the gardener, "a poor wretch like me?"


"That is of no consequence," they answered. "Here are new clothes for
you and your family."


"But I owe money to several people."


"We will pay your debts," they said.


So the gardener allowed himself to be persuaded, and went away with
the messengers, taking his wife and his son with him; and the King,
delighted to have found a real gardener, entrusted him with the care
of his garden. The man found no difficulty in making the royal garden
produce flowers and fruit, and at the end of a year the park was not
like the same place, and the King showered gifts upon his new servant.
"""
,
"""
The gardener, as you have heard already, had a son, who was a very
handsome young man, with most agreeable manners, and every day he
carried the best fruit of the garden to the King, and all the prettiest
flowers to his daughter. Now this princess was wonderfully pretty and
was just sixteen years old, and the King was beginning to think it was
time that she should be married.


"My dear child," said he, "you are of an age to take a husband,
therefore I am thinking of marrying you to the son of my prime minister.


"Father," replied the Princess, "I will never marry the son of the
minister."


"Why not?" asked the King.


"Because I love the gardener's son," answered the Princess.


On hearing this the King was at first very angry, and then he wept and
sighed, and declared that such a husband was not worthy of his daughter;
but the young Princess was not to be turned from her resolution to marry
the gardener's son.


Then the King consulted his ministers. "This is what you must do," they
said. "To get rid of the gardener you must send both suitors to a
very distant country, and the one who returns first shall marry your
daughter."


The King followed this advice, and the minister's son was presented with
a splendid horse and a purse full of gold pieces, while the gardener's
son had only an old lame horse and a purse full of copper money, and
every one thought he would never come back from his journey.


The day before they started the Princess met her lover and said to him:


"Be brave, and remember always that I love you. Take this purse full of
jewels and make the best use you can of them for love of me, and come
back quickly and demand my hand."
"""
,
"""
The two suitors left the town together, but the minister's son went off
at a gallop on his good horse, and very soon was lost to sight behind
the most distant hills. He traveled on for some days, and presently
reached a fountain beside which an old woman all in rags sat upon a
stone.


"Good-day to you, young traveler," said she.


But the minister's son made no reply.


"Have pity upon me, traveler," she said again. "I am dying of hunger,
as you see, and three days have I been here and no one has given me
anything."


"Let me alone, old witch," cried the young man; "I can do nothing for
you," and so saying he went on his way.


That same evening the gardener's son rode up to the fountain upon his
lame gray horse.


"Good-day to you, young traveler," said the beggar-woman.


"Good-day, good woman," answered he.


"Young traveler, have pity upon me."


"Take my purse, good woman," said he, "and mount behind me, for your
legs can't be very strong."


The old woman didn't wait to be asked twice, but mounted behind him,
and in this style they reached the chief city of a powerful kingdom. The
minister's son was lodged in a grand inn, the gardener's son and the old
woman dismounted at the inn for beggars.


The next day the gardener's son heard a great noise in the street, and
the King's heralds passed, blowing all kinds of instruments, and crying:


"The King, our master, is old and infirm. He will give a great reward to
whoever will cure him and give him back the strength of his youth."


Then the old beggar-woman said to her benefactor:
"""
,
"""
"This is what you must do to obtain the reward which the King promises.
Go out of the town by the south gate, and there you will find three
little dogs of different colors; the first will be white, the second
black, the third red. You must kill them and then burn them separately,
and gather up the ashes. Put the ashes of each dog into a bag of its own
color, then go before the door of the palace and cry out, 'A celebrated
physician has come from Janina in Albania. He alone can cure the King
and give him back the strength of his youth.' The King's physicians will
say, This is an impostor, and not a learned man,' and they will make all
sorts of difficulties, but you will overcome them all at last, and will
present yourself before the sick King. You must then demand as much wood
as three mules can carry, and a great cauldron, and must shut yourself
up in a room with the Sultan, and when the cauldron boils you must throw
him into it, and there leave him until his flesh is completely separated
from his bones. Then arrange the bones in their proper places, and throw
over them the ashes out of the three bags. The King will come back to
life, and will be just as he was when he was twenty years old. For your
reward you must demand the bronze ring which has the power to grant
you everything you desire. Go, my son, and do not forget any of my
instructions."


The young man followed the old beggar-woman's directions. On going out
of the town he found the white, red, and black dogs, and killed and
burnt them, gathering the ashes in three bags. Then he ran to the palace
and cried:


"A celebrated physician has just come from Janina in Albania. He alone
can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth."
"""
,
"""
The King's physicians at first laughed at the unknown wayfarer, but the
Sultan ordered that the stranger should be admitted. They brought the
cauldron and the loads of wood, and very soon the King was boiling away.
Toward mid-day the gardener's son arranged the bones in their places,
and he had hardly scattered the ashes over them before the old King
revived, to find himself once more young and hearty.


"How can I reward you, my benefactor?" he cried. "Will you take half my
treasures?"


"No," said the gardener's son.


"My daughter's hand?"


"_No_."


"Take half my kingdom."


"No. Give me only the bronze ring which can instantly grant me anything
I wish for."


"Alas!" said the King, "I set great store by that marvelous ring;
nevertheless, you shall have it." And he gave it to him.


The gardener's son went back to say good-by to the old beggar-woman;
then he said to the bronze ring:


"Prepare a splendid ship in which I may continue my journey. Let the
hull be of fine gold, the masts of silver, the sails of brocade; let
the crew consist of twelve young men of noble appearance, dressed like
kings. St. Nicholas will be at the helm. As to the cargo, let it be
diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and carbuncles."


And immediately a ship appeared upon the sea which resembled in every
particular the description given by the gardener's son, and, stepping
on board, he continued his journey. Presently he arrived at a great town
and established himself in a wonderful palace. After several days he
met his rival, the minister's son, who had spent all his money and was
reduced to the disagreeable employment of a carrier of dust and rubbish.
"""
,
"""
The gardener's son said to him:
"What is your name, what is your family, and from what country do you
come?"


"I am the son of the prime minister of a great nation, and yet see what
a degrading occupation I am reduced to."


"Listen to me; though I don't know anything more about you, I am willing
to help you. I will give you a ship to take you back to your own country
upon one condition."


"Whatever it may be, I accept it willingly."


"Follow me to my palace."


The minister's son followed the rich stranger, whom he had not
recognized. When they reached the palace the gardener's son made a sign
to his slaves, who completely undressed the new-comer.


"Make this ring red-hot," commanded the master, "and mark the man with
it upon his back."


The slaves obeyed him.


"Now, young man," said the rich stranger, "I am going to give you a
vessel which will take you back to your own country."


And, going out, he took the bronze ring and said:


"Bronze ring, obey thy master. Prepare me a ship of which the
half-rotten timbers shall be painted black, let the sails be in rags,
and the sailors infirm and sickly. One shall have lost a leg, another
an arm, the third shall be a hunchback, another lame or club-footed or
blind, and most of them shall be ugly and covered with scars. Go, and
let my orders be executed."


The minister's son embarked in this old vessel, and thanks to favorable
winds, at length reached his own country. In spite of the pitiable
condition in which he returned they received him joyfully.


"I am the first to come back," said he to the King; now fulfil your
promise, and give me the princess in marriage.
"""
,
"""
So they at once began to prepare for the wedding festivities. As to the
poor princess, she was sorrowful and angry enough about it.


The next morning, at daybreak, a wonderful ship with every sail set came
to anchor before the town. The King happened at that moment to be at the
palace window.


"What strange ship is this," he cried, "that has a golden hull, silver
masts, and silken sails, and who are the young men like princes who man
it? And do I not see St. Nicholas at the helm? Go at once and invite the
captain of the ship to come to the palace."


His servants obeyed him, and very soon in came an enchantingly handsome
young prince, dressed in rich silk, ornamented with pearls and diamonds.


"Young man," said the King, "you are welcome, whoever you may be. Do me
the favor to be my guest as long as you remain in my capital."


"Many thanks, sire," replied the captain, "I accept your offer."


"My daughter is about to be married," said the King; "will you give her
away?"


"I shall be charmed, sire."


Soon after came the Princess and her betrothed.


"Why, how is this?" cried the young captain; "would you marry this
charming princess to such a man as that?"


"But he is my prime minister's son!"


"What does that matter? I cannot give your daughter away. The man she is
betrothed to is one of my servants."


"Your servant?"


"Without doubt. I met him in a distant town reduced to carrying away
dust and rubbish from the houses. I had pity on him and engaged him as
one of my servants."


"It is impossible!" cried the King.


"Do you wish me to prove what I say? This young man returned in a vessel
which I fitted out for him, an unseaworthy ship with a black battered
hull, and the sailors were infirm and crippled."


"It is quite true," said the King.
"""
,
"""
"It is false," cried the minister's son. "I do not know this man!"


"Sire," said the young captain, "order your daughter's betrothed to be
stripped, and see if the mark of my ring is not branded upon his back."


The King was about to give this order, when the minister's son, to save
himself from such an indignity, admitted that the story was true.


"And now, sire," said the young captain, "do you not recognize me?"


"I recognize you," said the Princess; "you are the gardener's son whom I
have always loved, and it is you I wish to marry."


"Young man, you shall be my son-in-law," cried the King. "The marriage
festivities are already begun, so you shall marry my daughter this very
day."


And so that very day the gardener's son married the beautiful Princess.


Several months passed. The young couple were as happy as the day was
long, and the King was more and more pleased with himself for having
secured such a son-in-law.


But, presently, the captain of the golden ship found it necessary to
take a long voyage, and after embracing his wife tenderly he embarked.


Now in the outskirts of the capital there lived an old man, who had
spent his life in studying black arts--alchemy, astrology, magic,
and enchantment. This man found out that the gardener's son had only
succeeded in marrying the Princess by the help of the genii who obeyed
the bronze ring.


"I will have that ring," said he to himself. So he went down to the
sea-shore and caught some little red fishes. Really, they were
quite wonderfully pretty. Then he came back, and, passing before the
Princess's window, he began to cry out:


"Who wants some pretty little red fishes?"


The Princess heard him, and sent out one of her slaves, who said to the
old peddler:


"What will you take for your fish?"


"A bronze ring."


"A bronze ring, old simpleton! And where shall I find one?"


"Under the cushion in the Princess's room."
"""
,
"""
The slave went back to her mistress.


"The old madman will take neither gold nor silver," said she.


"What does he want then?"


"A bronze ring that is hidden under a cushion."


"Find the ring and give it to him," said the Princess.


And at last the slave found the bronze ring, which the captain of the
golden ship had accidentally left behind and carried it to the man, who
made off with it instantly.


Hardly had he reached his own house when, taking the ring, he said,
"Bronze ring, obey thy master. I desire that the golden ship shall turn
to black wood, and the crew to hideous negroes; that St. Nicholas shall
leave the helm and that the only cargo shall be black cats."


And the genii of the bronze ring obeyed him.


Finding himself upon the sea in this miserable condition, the young
captain understood that some one must have stolen the bronze ring from
him, and he lamented his misfortune loudly; but that did him no good.


"Alas!" he said to himself, "whoever has taken my ring has probably
taken my dear wife also. What good will it do me to go back to my own
country?" And he sailed about from island to island, and from shore to
shore, believing that wherever he went everybody was laughing at him,
and very soon his poverty was so great that he and his crew and the poor
black cats had nothing to eat but herbs and roots. After wandering about
a long time he reached an island inhabited by mice. The captain landed
upon the shore and began to explore the country. There were mice
everywhere, and nothing but mice. Some of the black cats had followed
him, and, not having been fed for several days, they were fearfully
hungry, and made terrible havoc among the mice.
"""
,
"""
Then the queen of the mice held a council.


"These cats will eat every one of us," she said, "if the captain of the
ship does not shut the ferocious animals up. Let us send a deputation to
him of the bravest among us."


Several mice offered themselves for this mission and set out to find the
young captain.


"Captain," said they, "go away quickly from our island, or we shall
perish, every mouse of us."


"Willingly," replied the young captain, "upon one condition. That is
that you shall first bring me back a bronze ring which some clever
magician has stolen from me. If you do not do this I will land all my
cats upon your island, and you shall be exterminated."


The mice withdrew in great dismay. "What is to be done?" said the Queen.
"How can we find this bronze ring?" She held a new council, calling in
mice from every quarter of the globe, but nobody knew where the bronze
ring was. Suddenly three mice arrived from a very distant country. One
was blind, the second lame, and the third had her ears cropped.


"Ho, ho, ho!" said the new-comers. "We come from a far distant country."


"Do you know where the bronze ring is which the genii obey?"


"Ho, ho, ho! we know; an old sorcerer has taken possession of it, and
now he keeps it in his pocket by day and in his mouth by night."


"Go and take it from him, and come back as soon as possible."


So the three mice made themselves a boat and set sail for the magician's
country. When they reached the capital they landed and ran to the
palace, leaving only the blind mouse on the shore to take care of the
boat. Then they waited till it was night. The wicked old man lay down in
bed and put the bronze ring into his mouth, and very soon he was asleep.
"""
,
"""
"Now, what shall we do?" said the two little animals to each other.


The mouse with the cropped ears found a lamp full of oil and a bottle
full of pepper. So she dipped her tail first in the oil and then in the
pepper, and held it to the sorcerer's nose.


"Atisha! atisha!" sneezed the old man, but he did not wake, and the
shock made the bronze ring jump out of his mouth. Quick as thought the
lame mouse snatched up the precious talisman and carried it off to the
boat.


Imagine the despair of the magician when he awoke and the bronze ring
was nowhere to be found!


But by that time our three mice had set sail with their prize. A
favoring breeze was carrying them toward the island where the queen
of the mice was awaiting them. Naturally they began to talk about the
bronze ring.


"Which of us deserves the most credit?" they cried all at once.


"I do," said the blind mouse, "for without my watchfulness our boat
would have drifted away to the open sea."


"No, indeed," cried the mouse with the cropped ears; "the credit is
mine. Did I not cause the ring to jump out of the man's mouth?"


"No, it is mine," cried the lame one, "for I ran off with the ring."


And from high words they soon came to blows, and, alas! when the quarrel
was fiercest the bronze ring fell into the sea.


"How are we to face our queen," said the three mice "when by our
folly we have lost the talisman and condemned our people to be utterly
exterminated? We cannot go back to our country; let us land on this
desert island and there end our miserable lives." No sooner said than
done. The boat reached the island, and the mice landed.
"""
,
"""
The blind mouse was speedily deserted by her two sisters, who went off
to hunt flies, but as she wandered sadly along the shore she found a
dead fish, and was eating it, when she felt something very hard. At her
cries the other two mice ran up.


"It is the bronze ring! It is the talisman!" they cried joyfully, and,
getting into their boat again, they soon reached the mouse island. It
was time they did, for the captain was just going to land his cargo of
cats, when a deputation of mice brought him the precious bronze ring.


"Bronze ring," commanded the young man, "obey thy master. Let my ship
appear as it was before."


Immediately the genii of the ring set to work, and the old black vessel
became once more the wonderful golden ship with sails of brocade; the
handsome sailors ran to the silver masts and the silken ropes, and very
soon they set sail for the capital.


Ah! how merrily the sailors sang as they flew over the glassy sea!


At last the port was reached.


The captain landed and ran to the palace, where he found the wicked
old man asleep. The Princess clasped her husband in a long embrace. The
magician tried to escape, but he was seized and bound with strong cords.


The next day the sorcerer, tied to the tail of a savage mule loaded with
nuts, was broken into as many pieces as there were nuts upon the mule's
back.
"""
,
"""
Once upon a time there lived a king who was deeply in love with a
princess, but she could not marry anyone, because she was under an
enchantment. So the King set out to seek a fairy, and asked what he
could do to win the Princess's love. The Fairy said to him:


"You know that the Princess has a great cat which she is very fond of.
Whoever is clever enough to tread on that cat's tail is the man she is
destined to marry."


The King said to himself that this would not be very difficult, and he
left the Fairy, determined to grind the cat's tail to powder rather than
not tread on it at all.


You may imagine that it was not long before he went to see the Princess,
and puss, as usual, marched in before him, arching his back. The King
took a long step, and quite thought he had the tail under his foot, but
the cat turned round so sharply that he only trod on air. And so it went
on for eight days, till the King began to think that this fatal tail
must be full of quicksilver--it was never still for a moment.


At last, however, he was lucky enough to come upon puss fast asleep and
with his tail conveniently spread out. So the King, without losing a
moment, set his foot upon it heavily.


With one terrific yell the cat sprang up and instantly changed into a
tall man, who, fixing his angry eyes upon the King, said:


"You shall marry the Princess because you have been able to break the
enchantment, but I will have my revenge. You shall have a son, who will
never be happy until he finds out that his nose is too long, and if you
ever tell anyone what I have just said to you, you shall vanish away
instantly, and no one shall ever see you or hear of you again."
"""
,
"""
Though the King was horribly afraid of the enchanter, he could not help
laughing at this threat.


"If my son has such a long nose as that," he said to himself, "he
must always see it or feel it; at least, if he is not blind or without
hands."


But, as the enchanter had vanished, he did not waste any more time in
thinking, but went to seek the Princess, who very soon consented to
marry him. But after all, they had not been married very long when the
King died, and the Queen had nothing left to care for but her little
son, who was called Hyacinth. The little Prince had large blue eyes, the
prettiest eyes in the world, and a sweet little mouth, but, alas!
his nose was so enormous that it covered half his face. The Queen was
inconsolable when she saw this great nose, but her ladies assured her
that it was not really as large as it looked; that it was a Roman nose,
and you had only to open any history to see that every hero has a large
nose. The Queen, who was devoted to her baby, was pleased with what they
told her, and when she looked at Hyacinth again, his nose certainly did
not seem to her _quite_ so large.


The Prince was brought up with great care; and, as soon as he could
speak, they told him all sorts of dreadful stories about people who had
short noses. No one was allowed to come near him whose nose did not more
or less resemble his own, and the courtiers, to get into favor with the
Queen, took to pulling their babies' noses several times every day
to make them grow long. But, do what they would, they were nothing by
comparison with the Prince's.
"""
,
"""
When he grew sensible he learned history; and whenever any great prince
or beautiful princess was spoken of, his teachers took care to tell him
that they had long noses.


His room was hung with pictures, all of people with very large noses;
and the Prince grew up so convinced that a long nose was a great beauty,
that he would not on any account have had his own a single inch shorter!


When his twentieth birthday was passed the Queen thought it was time
that he should be married, so she commanded that the portraits of
several princesses should be brought for him to see, and among the
others was a picture of the Dear Little Princess!


Now, she was the daughter of a great king, and would some day possess
several kingdoms herself; but Prince Hyacinth had not a thought to spare
for anything of that sort, he was so much struck with her beauty. The
Princess, whom he thought quite charming, had, however, a little saucy
nose, which, in her face, was the prettiest thing possible, but it was
a cause of great embarrassment to the courtiers, who had got into such
a habit of laughing at little noses that they sometimes found themselves
laughing at hers before they had time to think; but this did not do at
all before the Prince, who quite failed to see the joke, and actually
banished two of his courtiers who had dared to mention disrespectfully
the Dear Little Princess's tiny nose!


The others, taking warning from this, learned to think twice before they
spoke, and one even went so far as to tell the Prince that, though it
was quite true that no man could be worth anything unless he had a
long nose, still, a woman's beauty was a different thing; and he knew
a learned man who understood Greek and had read in some old manuscripts
that the beautiful Cleopatra herself had a "tip-tilted" nose!
"""
,
"""
The Prince made him a splendid present as a reward for this good
news, and at once sent ambassadors to ask the Dear Little Princess in
marriage. The King, her father, gave his consent; and Prince Hyacinth,
who, in his anxiety to see the Princess, had gone three leagues to meet
her was just advancing to kiss her hand when, to the horror of all who
stood by, the enchanter appeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning,
and, snatching up the Dear Little Princess, whirled her away out of
their sight!


The Prince was left quite unconsolable, and declared that nothing should
induce him to go back to his kingdom until he had found her again, and
refusing to allow any of his courtiers to follow him, he mounted his
horse and rode sadly away, letting the animal choose his own path.


So it happened that he came presently to a great plain, across which
he rode all day long without seeing a single house, and horse and rider
were terribly hungry, when, as the night fell, the Prince caught sight
of a light, which seemed to shine from a cavern.


He rode up to it, and saw a little old woman, who appeared to be at
least a hundred years old.


She put on her spectacles to look at Prince Hyacinth, but it was quite
a long time before she could fix them securely because her nose was so
very short.


The Prince and the Fairy (for that was who she was) had no sooner looked
at one another than they went into fits of laughter, and cried at the
same moment, "Oh, what a funny nose!"


"Not so funny as your own," said Prince Hyacinth to the Fairy; "but,
madam, I beg you to leave the consideration of our noses--such as
they are--and to be good enough to give me something to eat, for I am
starving, and so is my poor horse."
"""
,
"""
"With all my heart," said the Fairy. "Though your nose is so ridiculous
you are, nevertheless, the son of my best friend. I loved your father as
if he had been my brother. Now _he_ had a very handsome nose!"


"And pray what does mine lack?" said the Prince.


"Oh! it doesn't _lack_ anything," replied the Fairy. "On the contrary
quite, there is only too much of it. But never mind, one may be a very
worthy man though his nose is too long. I was telling you that I was
your father's friend; he often came to see me in the old times, and you
must know that I was very pretty in those days; at least, he used to say
so. I should like to tell you of a conversation we had the last time I
ever saw him."


"Indeed," said the Prince, "when I have supped it will give me the
greatest pleasure to hear it; but consider, madam, I beg of you, that I
have had nothing to eat to-day."


"The poor boy is right," said the Fairy; "I was forgetting. Come in,
then, and I will give you some supper, and while you are eating I can
tell you my story in a very few words--for I don't like endless tales
myself. Too long a tongue is worse than too long a nose, and I remember
when I was young that I was so much admired for not being a great
chatterer. They used to tell the Queen, my mother, that it was so. For
though you see what I am now, I was the daughter of a great king. My
father----"


"Your father, I dare say, got something to eat when he was hungry!"
interrupted the Prince.


"Oh! certainly," answered the Fairy, "and you also shall have supper
directly. I only just wanted to tell you----"
"""
,
"""
"But I really cannot listen to anything until I have had something
to eat," cried the Prince, who was getting quite angry; but then,
remembering that he had better be polite as he much needed the Fairy's
help, he added:


"I know that in the pleasure of listening to you I should quite forget
my own hunger; but my horse, who cannot hear you, must really be fed!"


The Fairy was very much flattered by this compliment, and said, calling
to her servants:


"You shall not wait another minute, you are so polite, and in spite of
the enormous size of your nose you are really very agreeable."


"Plague take the old lady! How she does go on about my nose!" said the
Prince to himself. "One would almost think that mine had taken all the
extra length that hers lacks! If I were not so hungry I would soon have
done with this chatterpie who thinks she talks very little! How stupid
people are not to see their own faults! That comes of being a princess:
she has been spoiled by flatterers, who have made her believe that she
is quite a moderate talker!"


Meanwhile the servants were putting the supper on the table, and the
prince was much amused to hear the Fairy who asked them a thousand
questions simply for the pleasure of hearing herself speak; especially
he noticed one maid who, no matter what was being said, always contrived
to praise her mistress's wisdom.


"Well!" he thought, as he ate his supper, "I'm very glad I came here.
This just shows me how sensible I have been in never listening to
flatterers. People of that sort praise us to our faces without shame,
and hide our faults or change them into virtues. For my part I never
will be taken in by them. I know my own defects, I hope."
"""
,
"""
Poor Prince Hyacinth! He really believed what he said, and hadn't an
idea that the people who had praised his nose were laughing at him, just
as the Fairy's maid was laughing at her; for the Prince had seen her
laugh slyly when she could do so without the Fairy's noticing her.


However, he said nothing, and presently, when his hunger began to be
appeased, the Fairy said:


"My dear Prince, might I beg you to move a little more that way, for
your nose casts such a shadow that I really cannot see what I have on my
plate. Ah! thanks. Now let us speak of your father. When I went to his
Court he was only a little boy, but that is forty years ago, and I have
been in this desolate place ever since. Tell me what goes on nowadays;
are the ladies as fond of amusement as ever? In my time one saw them at
parties, theatres, balls, and promenades every day. Dear me! _what_ a
long nose you have! I cannot get used to it!"


"Really, madam," said the Prince, "I wish you would leave off mentioning
my nose. It cannot matter to you what it is like. I am quite satisfied
with it, and have no wish to have it shorter. One must take what is
given one."


"Now you are angry with me, my poor Hyacinth," said the Fairy, "and I
assure you that I didn't mean to vex you; on the contrary, I wished to
do you a service. However, though I really cannot help your nose being a
shock to me, I will try not to say anything about it. I will even try to
think that you have an ordinary nose. To tell the truth, it would make
three reasonable ones."
"""
,
"""
The Prince, who was no longer hungry, grew so impatient at the Fairy's
continual remarks about his nose that at last he threw himself upon his
horse and rode hastily away. But wherever he came in his journeyings he
thought the people were mad, for they all talked of his nose, and yet
he could not bring himself to admit that it was too long, he had been so
used all his life to hear it called handsome.


The old Fairy, who wished to make him happy, at last hit upon a plan.
She shut the Dear Little Princess up in a palace of crystal, and put
this palace down where the Prince would not fail to find it. His joy at
seeing the Princess again was extreme, and he set to work with all his
might to try to break her prison; but in spite of all his efforts he
failed utterly. In despair he thought at least that he would try to
get near enough to speak to the Dear Little Princess, who, on her part,
stretched out her hand that he might kiss it; but turn which way he
might, he never could raise it to his lips, for his long nose always
prevented it. For the first time he realized how long it really was, and
exclaimed:


"Well, it must be admitted that my nose _is_ too long!"


In an instant the crystal prison flew into a thousand splinters, and
the old Fairy, taking the Dear Little Princess by the hand, said to the
Prince:


"Now, say if you are not very much obliged to me. Much good it was for
me to talk to you about your nose! You would never have found out how
extraordinary it was if it hadn't hindered you from doing what you
wanted to. You see how self-love keeps us from knowing our own defects
of mind and body. Our reason tries in vain to show them to us; we refuse
to see them till we find them in the way of our interests."
"""
,
"""
When Egbert Dormer died he left his two daughters utterly penniless
upon the world, and it must be said of Egbert Dormer that nothing
else could have been expected of him. The two girls were both
pretty, but Lucy, who was twenty-one, was supposed to be simple and
comparatively unattractive, whereas Ayala was credited,--as her
somewhat romantic name might show,--with poetic charm and a taste for
romance. Ayala when her father died was nineteen.


We must begin yet a little earlier and say that there had been,--and
had died many years before the death of Egbert Dormer,--a clerk in
the Admiralty, by name Reginald Dosett, who, and whose wife, had been
conspicuous for personal beauty. Their charms were gone, but the
records of them had been left in various grandchildren. There had
been a son born to Mr. Dosett, who was also a Reginald and a clerk
in the Admiralty, and who also, in his turn, had been a handsome
man. With him, in his decadence, the reader will become acquainted.
There were also two daughters, whose reputation for perfect feminine
beauty had never been contested. The elder had married a city man of
wealth,--of wealth when he married her, but who had become enormously
wealthy by the time of our story. He had when he married been simply
Mister, but was now Sir Thomas Tringle, Baronet, and was senior
partner in the great firm of Travers and Treason. Of Traverses and
Treasons there were none left in these days, and Mr. Tringle was
supposed to manipulate all the millions with which the great firm in
Lombard Street was concerned. He had married old Mr. Dosett's eldest
daughter, Emmeline, who was now Lady Tringle, with a house at the top
of Queen's Gate, rented at £1,500 a year, with a palatial moor in
Scotland, with a seat in Sussex, and as many carriages and horses as
would suit an archduchess. Lady Tringle had everything in the world;
a son, two daughters, and an open-handed stout husband, who was said
to have told her that money was a matter of no consideration.
"""
,
"""
The second Miss Dosett, Adelaide Dosett, who had been considerably
younger than her sister, had insisted upon giving herself to Egbert
Dormer, the artist, whose death we commemorated in our first line.
But she had died before her husband. They who remembered the two
Miss Dosetts as girls were wont to declare that, though Lady Tringle
might, perhaps, have had the advantage in perfection of feature and
in unequalled symmetry, Adelaide had been the more attractive from
expression and brilliancy. To her Lord Sizes had offered his hand
and coronet, promising to abandon for her sake all the haunts of his
matured life. To her Mr. Tringle had knelt before he had taken the
elder sister. For her Mr. Program, the popular preacher of the day,
for a time so totally lost himself that he was nearly minded to go
over to Rome. She was said to have had offers from a widowed Lord
Chancellor and from a Russian prince. Her triumphs would have quite
obliterated that of her sister had she not insisted on marrying
Egbert Dormer.


Then there had been, and still was, Reginald Dosett, the son of old
Dosett, and the eldest of the family. He too had married, and was now
living with his wife; but to them had no children been born, luckily,
as he was a poor man. Alas, to a beautiful son it is not often that
beauty can be a fortune as to a daughter. Young Reginald Dosett,--he
is anything now but young,--had done but little for himself with his
beauty, having simply married the estimable daughter of a brother
clerk. Now, at the age of fifty, he had his £900 a year from his
office, and might have lived in fair comfort had he not allowed a
small millstone of debt to hang round his neck from his earlier
years. But still he lived creditably in a small but very genteel
house at Notting Hill, and would have undergone any want rather than
have declared himself to be a poor man to his rich relations the
Tringles.
"""
,
"""
Such were now the remaining two children of old Mr. Dosett,--Lady
Tringle, namely, and Reginald Dosett, the clerk in the Admiralty.
Adelaide, the beauty in chief of the family, was gone; and now
also her husband, the improvident artist, had followed his wife.
Dormer had been by no means a failing artist. He had achieved
great honour,--had at an early age been accepted into the Royal
Academy,--had sold pictures to illustrious princes and more
illustrious dealers, had been engraved and had lived to see his own
works resold at five times their original prices. Egbert Dormer might
also have been a rich man. But he had a taste for other beautiful
things besides a wife. The sweetest little phaeton that was to
cost nothing, the most perfect bijou of a little house at South
Kensington,--he had boasted that it might have been packed without
trouble in his brother-in-law Tringle's dining-room,--the simplest
little gem for his wife, just a blue set of china for his dinner
table, just a painted cornice for his studio, just satin hangings for
his drawing-room,--and a few simple ornaments for his little girls;
these with a few rings for himself, and velvet suits of clothing
in which to do his painting; these, with a few little dinner
parties to show off his blue china, were the first and last of his
extravagances. But when he went, and when his pretty things were
sold, there was not enough to cover his debts. There was, however, a
sweet savour about his name. When he died it was said of him that his
wife's death had killed him. He had dropped his pallette, refused
to finish the ordered portrait of a princess, and had simply turned
himself round and died.
"""
,
"""
Then there were the two daughters, Lucy and Ayala. It should be
explained that though a proper family intercourse had always been
maintained between the three families, the Tringles, the Dormers, and
the Dosetts, there had never been cordiality between the first and
the two latter. The wealth of the Tringles had seemed to convey with
it a fetid odour. Egbert Dormer, with every luxury around him which
money could purchase, had affected to despise the heavy magnificence
of the Tringles. It may be that he affected a fashion higher than
that which the Tringles really attained. Reginald Dosett, who was
neither brilliant nor fashionable, was in truth independent, and,
perhaps, a little thin-skinned. He would submit to no touch of
arrogance from Sir Thomas; and Sir Thomas seemed to carry arrogance
in his brow and in his paunch. It was there rather, perhaps, than in
his heart; but there are men to whom a knack of fumbling their money
in their pockets and of looking out from under penthouse brows over
an expanse of waistcoat, gives an air of overweening pride which
their true idiosyncracies may not justify. To Dosett had, perhaps,
been spoken a word or two which on some occasion he had inwardly
resented, and from thenceforward he had ever been ready to league
with Dormer against the "bullionaire," as they agreed to call Sir
Thomas. Lady Tringle had even said a word to her sister, Mrs. Dormer,
as to expenses, and that had never been forgiven by the artist. So
things were when Mrs. Dormer died first; and so they remained when
her husband followed her.
"""
,
"""
Then there arose a sudden necessity for action, which, for a while,
brought Reginald Dosett into connexion with Sir Thomas and Lady
Tringle. Something must be done for the poor girls. That the
something should come out of the pocket of Sir Thomas would have
seemed to be natural. Money with him was no object,--not at all.
Another girl or two would be nothing to him,--as regarded simple
expenditure. But the care of a human being is an important matter,
and so Sir Thomas knew. Dosett had not a child at all, and would be
the better for such a windfall. Dosett he supposed to be,--in his,
Dosett's way,--fairly well off. So he made this proposition. He would
take one girl and let Dosett take the other. To this Lady Tringle
added her proviso, that she should have the choice. To her nerves
affairs of taste were of such paramount importance! To this Dosett
yielded. The matter was decided in Lady Tringle's back drawing-room.
Mrs. Dosett was not even consulted in that matter of choice, having
already acknowledged the duty of mothering a motherless child. Dosett
had thought that the bullionaire should have said a word as to some
future provision for the penniless girl, for whom he would be able
to do so little. But Sir Thomas had said no such word, and Dosett,
himself, lacked both the courage and the coarseness to allude to the
matter. Then Lady Tringle declared that she must have Ayala, and so
the matter was settled. Ayala the romantic; Ayala the poetic! It was
a matter of course that Ayala should be chosen. Ayala had already
been made intimate with the magnificent saloons of the Tringles,
and had been felt by Lady Tringle to be an attraction. Her long
dark black locks, which had never hitherto been tucked up, which
were never curled, which were never so long as to be awkward, were
already known as being the loveliest locks in London. 
"""
,
"""
She sang as though Nature had intended her to be a singing-bird,--requiring no
education, no labour. She had been once for three months in Paris,
and French had come naturally to her. Her father had taught her
something of his art, and flatterers had already begun to say that
she was born to be the one great female artist of the world. Her
hands, her feet, her figure were perfect. Though she was as yet but
nineteen, London had already begun to talk about Ayala Dormer. Of
course Lady Tringle chose Ayala, not remembering at the moment that
her own daughters might probably be superseded by their cousin.


And, therefore, as Lady Tringle said herself to Lucy with her
sweetest smile--Mrs. Dosett had chosen Lucy. The two girls were old
enough to know something of the meaning of such a choice. Ayala,
the younger, was to be adopted into immense wealth, and Lucy was to
be given up to comparative poverty. She knew nothing of her uncle
Dosett's circumstances, but the genteel house at Notting Hill,--No.
3, Kingsbury Crescent,--was known to her, and was but a poor affair
as compared even with the bijou in which she had hitherto lived. Her
aunt Dosett never rose to any vehicle beyond a four-wheeler, and
was careful even in thinking of that accommodation. Ayala would be
whirled about the park by a wire-wig and a pair of brown horses which
they had heard it said were not to be matched in London. Ayala would
be carried with her aunt and her cousin to the show-room of Madame
Tonsonville, the great French milliner of Bond Street, whereas she,
Lucy, might too probably be called on to make her own gowns. All the
fashion of Queen's Gate, something, perhaps, of the fashion of Eaton
Square, would be open to Ayala. Lucy understood enough to know that
Ayala's own charms might probably cause still more August gates to
be opened to her, whereas Aunt Dosett entered no gates. It was quite
natural that Ayala should be chosen. Lucy acknowledged as much to
herself. But they were sisters, and had been so near! By what a chasm
would they be dissevered, now so far asunder!
"""
,
"""
Lucy herself was a lovely girl, and knew her own loveliness. She
was fairer than Ayala, somewhat taller, and much more quiet in her
demeanour. She was also clever, but her cleverness did not show
itself so quickly. She was a musician, whereas her sister could only
sing. She could really draw, whereas her sister would rush away into
effects in which the drawing was not always very excellent. Lucy was
doing the best she could for herself, knowing something of French
and German, though as yet not very fluent with her tongue. The two
girls were, in truth, both greatly gifted; but Ayala had the gift of
showing her talent without thought of showing it. Lucy saw it all,
and knew that she was outshone; but how great had been the price of
the outshining!


The artist's house had been badly ordered, and the two girls were of
better disposition and better conduct than might have been expected
from such fitful training. Ayala had been the father's pet, and Lucy
the mother's. Parents do ill in making pets, and here they had done
ill. Ayala had been taught to think herself the favourite, because
the artist, himself, had been more prominent before the world than
his wife. But the evil had not been lasting enough to have made bad
feeling between the sisters. Lucy knew that her sister had been
preferred to her, but she had been self-denying enough to be aware
that some such preference was due to Ayala. She, too, admired Ayala,
and loved her with her whole heart. And Ayala was always good to
her,--had tried to divide everything,--had assumed no preference as a
right. The two were true sisters. But when it was decided that Lucy
was to go to Kingsbury Crescent the difference was very great. The
two girls, on their father's death, had been taken to the great red
brick house in Queen's Gate, and from thence, three or four days
after the funeral, Lucy was to be transferred to her Aunt Dosett.
Hitherto there had been little between them but weeping for their
father. Now had come the hour of parting.
"""
,
"""
The tidings had been communicated to Lucy, and to Lucy alone, by Aunt
Tringle,--"As you are the eldest, dear, we think that you will be
best able to be a comfort to your aunt," said Lady Tringle.


"I will do the best I can, Aunt Emmeline," said Lucy, declaring to
herself that, in giving such a reason, her aunt was lying basely.


"I am sure you will. Poor dear Ayala is younger than her cousins, and
will be more subject to them." So in truth was Lucy younger than her
cousins, but of that she said nothing. "I am sure you will agree with
me that it is best that we should have the youngest."


"Perhaps it is, Aunt Emmeline."


"Sir Thomas would not have had it any other way," said Lady Tringle,
with a little severity, feeling that Lucy's accord had hardly been
as generous as it should be. But she recovered herself quickly,
remembering how much it was that Ayala was to get, how much that Lucy
was to lose. "But, my dear, we shall see you very often, you know.
It is not so far across the park; and when we do have a few parties
again--"


"Oh, aunt, I am not thinking of that."


"Of course not. We can none of us think of it just now. But when
the time does come of course we shall always have you, just as if
you were one of us." Then her aunt gave her a roll of bank-notes, a
little present of twenty-five pounds, to begin the world with, and
told her that the carriage should take her to Kingsbury Crescent
on the following morning. On the whole Lucy behaved well and left
a pleasant impression on her aunt's mind. The difference between
Queen's Gate and Kingsbury Crescent,--between Queen's Gate and
Kingsbury Crescent for life,--was indeed great!
"""
,
"""
"I wish it were you, with all my heart," said Ayala, clinging to her
sister.


"It could not have been me."


"Why not!"


"Because you are so pretty and you are so clever."


"No!"


"Yes! If we were to be separated of course it would be so. Do not
suppose, dear, that I am disappointed."


"I am."


"If I can only like Aunt Margaret,"--Aunt Margaret was Mrs. Dosett,
with whom neither of the girls had hitherto become intimate, and who
was known to be quiet, domestic, and economical, but who had also
been spoken of as having a will of her own,--"I shall do better with
her than you would, Ayala."


"I don't see why."


"Because I can remain quiet longer than you. It will be very quiet.
I wonder how we shall see each other! I cannot walk across the park
alone."


"Uncle Reg will bring you."


"Not often, I fear. Uncle Reg has enough to do with his office."


"You can come in a cab."


"Cabs cost money, Ayey dear."


"But Uncle Thomas--"


"We had better understand one or two things, Ayala. Uncle Thomas will
pay everything for you, and as he is very rich things will come as
they are wanted. There will be cabs, and if not cabs, carriages.
Uncle Reg must pay for me, and he is very very kind to do so. But
as he is not rich, there will be no carriages, and not a great many
cabs. It is best to understand it all."


"But they will send for you."


"That's as they please. I don't think they will very often. I would
not for the world put you against Uncle Thomas, but I have a feeling
that I shall never get on with him. But you will never separate
yourself from me, Ayala!"
"""
,
"""
"Separate myself!"


"You will not--not be my sister because you will be one of these rich
ones?"


"Oh, I wish,--I wish that I were to be the poor one. I'm sure I
should like it best. I never cared about being rich. Oh, Lucy, can't
we make them change?"


"No, Ayey, my own, we can't make them change. And if we could, we
wouldn't. It is altogether best that you should be a rich Tringle and
that I should be a poor Dosett."


"I will always be a Dormer," said Ayala, proudly.


"And I will always be so too, my pet. But you should be a bright
Dormer among the Tringles, and I will be a dull Dormer among the
Dosetts. I shall begrudge nothing, if only we can see each other."


So the two girls were parted, the elder being taken away to Kingsbury
Crescent and the latter remaining with her rich relations at Queen's
Gate. Ayala had not probably realized the great difference of their
future positions. To her the attractions of wealth and the privations
of comparative poverty had not made themselves as yet palpably plain.
They do not become so manifest to those to whom the wealth falls,--at
any rate, not in early life,--as to the opposite party. If the other
lot had fallen to Ayala she might have felt it more keenly.


Lucy felt it keenly enough. Without any longing after the
magnificence of the Tringle mansion she knew how great was the fall
from her father's well-assorted luxuries and prettinesses down to the
plain walls, tables, and chairs of her Uncle Dosett's house. Her aunt
did not subscribe to Mudie's. The old piano had not been tuned for
the last ten years. The parlour-maid was a cross old woman. Her aunt
always sat in the dining-room through the greater part of the day,
and of all rooms the dining-room in Kingsbury Crescent was the
dingiest. Lucy understood very well to what she was going. Her father
and mother were gone. Her sister was divided from her. Her life
offered for the future nothing to her. But with it all she carried a
good courage. There was present to her an idea of great misfortune;
but present to her at the same time an idea also that she would do
her duty.
"""
,
"""
Alas, the Roman gods are the gods of the patricians! They take so little
heed of the sorrows and the trials of poor freedmen and slaves!


"Who ordered the hat to be put on this girl's head?" suddenly interposed
the harsh voice of the praefect.


He had not moved away from the rostrum all the while that the throng of
obsequious sycophants and idle lovesick youths had crowded round Dea
Flavia. Now he spoke over his shoulder at Hun Rhavas, who had no
thought, whilst his comfortable little plot was succeeding so well, that
the praefect was paying heed.


"She hath no guarantee, as my lord's grace himself hath knowledge," said
the African with anxious humility.


"Nay! thou liest as to my knowledge of it," said Taurus Antinor. "Where
is the list of goods compiled by the censor?"


Three pairs of willing hands were ready with the parchment rolls which
the praefect had commanded; one was lucky enough to place them in his
hands.


"What is the girl's name?" he asked as his deep-set eyes, under their
perpetual frown, ran down the minute writing on the parchment roll.


"Nola, the daughter of Menecreta, my lord," said one of the scribes.


"I do not see the name of Nola, daughter of Menecreta, amongst those
whom the State doth not guarantee for skill, health or condition,"
rejoined the praefect quietly, and his rough voice, scarcely raised
above its ordinary pitch, seemed to ring a death-knell in poor
Menecreta's heart.


"Nola, the daughter of Menecreta," he continued, once more referring to
the parchment in his hand, "is here described as sixteen years of age,
of sound health and robust constitution, despite the spareness of her
body. The censor who compiled this list states that she has a fair
knowledge of the use of unguents and of herbs, that she can use a needle
and plait a lady's hair. Thou didst know all this, Hun Rhavas, for the
duplicate list is before thee even now."
"""
,
"""
"My lord's grace," murmured Hun Rhavas, his voice quivering now, his
limbs shaking with the fear in him, "I did not know--I----"


"Thou didst endeavour to defraud the State for purposes of thine own,"
interposed the praefect calmly. "Here! thou!" he added, beckoning to one
of his lictors, "take this man to the Regia and hand him over to the
chief warder."


"My lord's grace----" cried Hun Rhavas.


"Silence! To-morrow thou'lt appear before me in the basilica. Bring thy
witnesses then if thou hast any to speak in thy defence. To-morrow thou
canst plead before me any circumstance which might mitigate thy fault
and stay my lips from condemning thee to that severe chastisement which
crimes against the State deserve. In the meanwhile hold thy peace. I'll
not hear another word."


But it was not in the negro's blood to submit to immediate punishment
now and certain chastisement in the future without vigorous
protestations and the generous use of his powerful lungs. The praefect's
sentences in the tribunal where he administered justice were not
characterised by leniency; the galleys, the stone-quarries, aye! even
the cross were all within the bounds of possibility, whilst the scourge
was an absolute certainty.


Hun Rhavas set up a succession of howls which echoed from temple to
temple, from one end of the Forum to the other.


The frown on the praefect's forehead became even more marked than
before. He had seen the young idlers--who, but a moment ago, were
fawning round Dea Flavia's litter--turning eagerly back towards the
rostrum, where Hun Rhavas' cries and moans had suggested the likelihood
of one of those spectacles of wanton and purposeless cruelty in which
their perverted senses found such constant delight.
"""
,
"""
But this spectacle Taurus Antinor was not like to give them. All he
wanted was the quick restoration of peace and order. The fraudulent
auctioneer was naught in his sight but a breaker of the law. As such he
was deserving of such punishment as the law decreed and no more. But his
howls just now were the means of rousing in the hearts of the crowd that
most despicable of all passions to which the Roman--the master of
civilisation--was a prey--the love of seeing some creature, man or
beast, in pain, a passion which brought the Roman citizen down to the
level of the brute: therefore Taurus Antinor wished above all to silence
Hun Rhavas.


"One more sound from thy throat and I'll have thee scourged now and
branded ere thy trial," he said.


The threat was sufficient. The negro, feeling that in submission lay his
chief hope of mercy on the morrow, allowed himself to be led away
quietly whilst the young patricians--cheated of an anticipated
pleasure--protested audibly.


"And thou, Cheiron," continued the praefect, addressing a fair-skinned
slave up on the rostrum who had been assistant hitherto in the auction,
"do thou take the place vacated by Hun Rhavas."


He gave a few quick words of command to the lictors.


"Take the hat from off that girl's head," he said, "and put the
inscribed tablet round her neck. Then she can be set up for sale as the
State hath decreed."


As if moved by clockwork one of the lictors approached the girl and
removed the unbecoming hat from her head, releasing a living stream of
gold which, as it rippled over the girl's shoulders, roused a quick cry
of admiration in the crowd.
"""
,
"""
In a moment Menecreta realised that her last hope must yield to the
inevitable now. Even whilst her accomplice, Hun Rhavas, received the
full brunt of the praefect's wrath she had scarcely dared to breathe,
scarcely felt that she lived in this agony of fear. Her child still
stood there on the platform, disfigured by the ugly headgear, obviously
most unattractive to the crowd; nor did the awful possibility at first
present itself to her mind that all her schemes for obtaining possession
of her daughter could come to naught. It was so awful, so impossible of
conception that the child should here, to-day, pass out of the mother's
life for ever and without hope of redemption; that she should become the
property of a total stranger who might for ever refuse to part from her
again--an agriculturist, mayhap, who lived far off in Ethuria or
Macedon--and that she, the mother, could never, never, hope to see her
daughter again--that was a thought which was so horrible that its very
horror seemed to render its realisation impossible.


But now the praefect, with that harsh, pitiless voice of his, was
actually ordering the girl to be sold in the usual way, with all her
merits exhibited to the likely purchaser: her golden hair--a perfect
glory--to tempt the artistic eye, her skill recounted in fulsomeness,
her cleverness with the needle, her knowledge of healing herbs.


The mother suddenly felt that every one in that cruel gaping crowd must
be pining to possess such a treasure, that the combined wealth of every
citizen of Rome would be lavished in this endeavour to obtain the great
prize. The praefect himself, mayhap, would bid for her, or the
imperator's agents!--alas! everything seemed possible to the anxious,
the ridiculous, the sublime heart of the doting mother, and when that
living mass of golden ripples glimmered in the noonday sun,
Menecreta--forgetting her timidity, her fears, her weakness--pushed her
way through the crowd with all the strength of her despair, and with a
cry of agonised entreaty, threw herself at the feet of the praefect of
Rome.
"""
,
"""
"My lord's grace, have mercy! have pity! I entreat thee! In the name of
the gods, of thy mother, of thy child if thou hast one, have pity on me!
have pity! have pity!"


The lictors had sprung forward in a moment and tried to seize the woman
who had dared to push her way to the praefect's closely guarded
presence, and was crouching there, her arms encircling his thighs, her
face pressed close against his knees. One of the men raised his flail
and brought it down with cruel strength on her thinly covered shoulders,
but she did not heed the blow, mayhap she never felt it.


"Who ordered thee to strike?" said Taurus Antinor sternly to the lictor
who already had the flail raised for the second time.


"The woman doth molest my lord's grace," protested the man.


"Have I said so?"


"No, my lord--but I thought to do my duty----"


"That thought will cost thee ten such lashes with the rods as thou didst
deal this woman. By Jupiter!" he added roughly, whilst for the first
time a look of ferocity as that of an angry beast lit up the
impassiveness of his deep-set eyes, "if this turmoil continues I'll
have every slave here flogged till he bleed. Is the business of the
State to be hindered by the howlings of this miserable rabble? Get thee
gone, woman," he cried finally, looking down on prostrate Menecreta,
"get thee gone ere my lictors do thee further harm."


But she, with the obstinacy of a great sorrow, clung to his knees and
would not move.


"My lord's grace, have pity--'tis my child; an thou takest her from me
thou'lt part those whom the gods themselves have united--'tis my child,
my lord! hast no children of thine own?"
"""
,
"""
"What dost prate about?" he asked, still speaking roughly for he was
wroth with her and hated to see the gaping crowd of young, empty-headed
fools congregating round him and this persistent suppliant hanging round
his shins. "Thy child? who's thy child? And what hath thy child to do
with me?"


"She is but a babe, my lord," said Menecreta with timid, tender voice;
"her age only sixteen. A hand-maiden she was to Arminius Quirinius, who
gave the miserable mother her freedom but kept the daughter so that he
might win good money by and by through the selling of the child. My
lord's grace, I have toiled for six years that in the end I might buy my
daughter's freedom. Fifty aurei did Arminius Quirinius demand as her
price and I worked my fingers to the bone so that in time I might save
that money. But Arminius Quirinius is dead and I have only twenty aurei.
With the hat of disgrace on her head the child could have been knocked
down to me--but now! now! look at her, my lord, how beautiful she is!
and I have only twenty aurei!"


Taurus Antinor had listened quite patiently to Menecreta's tale. His
sun-tanned face clearly showed how hard he was trying to gather up the
tangled threads of her scrappy narrative. Nor did the lictors this time
try to interfere with the woman. The praefect apparently was in no easy
temper to-day, and when ill-humour seized him rods and flails were kept
busy.


"And why didst not petition me before?" he asked, after a while, when
Menecreta paused in order to draw breath.


And his face looked so fierce, his voice sounded so rough, no wonder the
poor woman trembled as she whispered through her tears:


"I did not dare, my lord--I did not dare."
"""
,
"""
"Yet thou didst dare openly to outrage the law!"


"I wanted my child."


"And how many aurei didst promise to Hun Rhavas for helping thee to
defraud the State?"


"Only five, my lord," she murmured.


"Then," he said sternly, "not only didst thou conspire to cheat the
State for whose benefit the sale of the late censor's goods was ordered
by imperial decree, but thou didst bribe another--a slave of the
treasury--to aid and abet thee in this fraud."


Menecreta's grasp round the praefect's knees did not relax and he made
no movement to free himself, but her head fell sideways against her
shoulder whilst her lips murmured in tones of utter despair:


"I wanted my child."


"For thy delinquencies," resumed the praefect, seemingly not heeding the
pathetic appeal, "thou shalt appear before my tribunal on the morrow
like unto Hun Rhavas thine accomplice, and thou shalt then be punished
no less than thou deservest. But this is no place for the delivery of my
judgment upon thee, and the sale must proceed as the law directs; thy
daughter must stand upon the catasta, thou canst renew thy bid of
twenty aurei for her, and," he added with unmistakable significance, as
throwing his head back his imperious glance swept over the assembled
crowd, "as there will be no higher bid for Nola, daughter of Menecreta,
she will become thy property as by law decreed."


The true meaning of this last sentence was quite unmistakable. The crowd
who had gathered round the rostrum to watch, gaping, the moving
incident, looked on the praefect and understood no one was to bid for
Nola, the daughter of Menecreta. Taurus Antinor, surnamed Anglicanus,
had spoken and it would not be to anyone's advantage to quarrel with his
arbitrary pronouncement for the sake of any slave girl, however
desirable she might be. It was not pleasant to encounter the wrath of
the praefect of Rome nor safe to rouse his enmity.
"""
,
"""
So the crowd acquiesced silently, not only because it feared the
praefect, but also because Menecreta's sorrow, the call of the
despairing mother, the sad tragedy of this little domestic episode had
not left untouched the hearts of these Roman citizens. In matters of
sentiment they were not cruel and they held family ties in great esteem;
both these factors went far towards causing any would-be purchaser to
obey Taurus Antinor's commands and to retire at once from the bidding.


As for Menecreta, it seemed to her as if the heavens had opened before
her delighted gaze. From the depths of despair she had suddenly been
dragged forth into the blinding daylight of hope. She could scarcely
believe that her ears had heard rightly the words of the praefect.


Still clinging to his knees she raised her head to him; her eyes still
dimmed with tears looked strangely wondering up at his face whilst her
lips murmured faintly:


"Art thou a god, that thou shouldst act like this?"


But obviously the small stock of patience possessed by the praefect was
now exhausted, for he pushed the woman roughly away from him.


"A truce on thy ravings now, woman. The midday hour is almost on us. I
have no further time to waste on thine affairs. Put the girl up on the
catasta," he added, speaking in his usual harsh, curt way, "and take
this woman's arms from round my shins."


And it was characteristic of him that this time he did not interfere
with his lictors when they handled the woman with their accustomed
roughness.
"""
,
"""
The political agitation which for a year and a half had shaken England to
its centre, received, if possible, an increase to its intensity and
virulence, when it was known, in the early part of the month of May, 1832,
that the Prime Minister had tendered his resignation to the King, which
resignation had been graciously accepted.


The amendment carried by the Opposition in the House of Lords on the
evening of the 7th of May, that the enfranchising clauses of the Reform
Bill should be considered before entering into the question of
disfranchisement, was the immediate cause of this startling event. The
Lords had previously consented to the second reading of the Bill with the
view of preventing that large increase of their numbers with which they
had been long menaced; rather, indeed, by mysterious rumours than by any
official declaration; but, nevertheless, in a manner which had carried
conviction to no inconsiderable portion of the Opposition that the threat
was not without foundation.


During the progress of the Bill through the Lower House, the journals
which were looked upon as the organs of the ministry had announced with
unhesitating confidence, that Lord Grey was armed with what was then
called a 'carte blanche' to create any number of peers necessary to insure
its success. But public journalists who were under the control of the
ministry, and whose statements were never contradicted, were not the sole
authorities for this prevailing belief. Members of the House of Commons,
who were strong supporters of the cabinet, though not connected with it by
any official tie, had unequivocally stated in their places that the
Sovereign had not resisted the advice of his counsellors to create peers,
if such creation were required to carry into effect what was then styled
'the great national measure.' In more than one instance, ministers had
been warned, that if they did not exercise that power with prompt energy,
they might deserve impeachment. And these intimations and announcements
had been made in the presence of leading members of the Government, and
had received from them, at least, the sanction of their silence.
"""
,
"""
It did not subsequently appear that the Reform ministers had been invested
with any such power; but a conviction of the reverse, fostered by these
circumstances, had successfully acted upon the nervous temperament, or the
statesman-like prudence, of a certain section of the peers, who
consequently hesitated in their course; were known as being no longer
inclined to pursue their policy of the preceding session; had thus
obtained a title at that moment in everybody's mouth, the title of 'THE
WAVERERS.'


Notwithstanding, therefore, the opposition of the Duke of Wellington and
of Lord Lyndhurst, the Waverers carried the second reading of the Reform
Bill; and then, scared at the consequences of their own headstrong
timidity, they went in a fright to the Duke and his able adviser to
extricate them from the inevitable result of their own conduct. The
ultimate device of these distracted counsels, where daring and
poltroonery, principle and expediency, public spirit and private intrigue,
each threw an ingredient into the turbulent spell, was the celebrated and
successful amendment to which we have referred.


But the Whig ministers, who, whatever may have been their faults, were at
least men of intellect and courage, were not to be beaten by 'the
Waverers.' They might have made terms with an audacious foe; they trampled
on a hesitating opponent. Lord Grey hastened to the palace.


Before the result of this appeal to the Sovereign was known, for its
effects were not immediate, on the second morning after the vote in the
House of Lords, Mr. Rigby had made that visit to Eton which had summoned
very unexpectedly the youthful Coningsby to London. He was the orphan
child of the youngest of the two sons of the Marquess of Monmouth. It was
a family famous for its hatreds. The eldest son hated his father; and, it
was said, in spite had married a lady to whom that father was attached,
and with whom Lord Monmouth then meditated a second alliance. This eldest
son lived at Naples, and had several children, but maintained no
connection either with his parent or his native country. 
"""
,
"""
On the other hand, Lord Monmouth hated his younger son, who had married, against his
consent, a woman to whom that son was devoted. A system of domestic
persecution, sustained by the hand of a master, had eventually broken up
the health of its victim, who died of a fever in a foreign country, where
he had sought some refuge from his creditors.


His widow returned to England with her child; and, not having a relation,
and scarcely an acquaintance in the world, made an appeal to her husband's
father, the wealthiest noble in England and a man who was often prodigal,
and occasionally generous. After some time, and more trouble, after urgent
and repeated, and what would have seemed heart-rending, solicitations, the
attorney of Lord Monmouth called upon the widow of his client's son, and
informed her of his Lordship's decision. Provided she gave up her child,
and permanently resided in one of the remotest counties, he was authorised
to make her, in four quarterly payments, the yearly allowance of three
hundred pounds, that being the income that Lord Monmouth, who was the
shrewdest accountant in the country, had calculated a lone woman might
very decently exist upon in a small market town in the county of
Westmoreland.


Desperate necessity, the sense of her own forlornness, the utter
impossibility to struggle with an omnipotent foe, who, her husband had
taught her, was above all scruples, prejudices, and fears, and who, though
he respected law, despised opinion, made the victim yield. But her
sufferings were not long; the separation from her child, the bleak clime,
the strange faces around her, sharp memory, and the dull routine of an
unimpassioned life, all combined to wear out a constitution originally
frail, and since shattered by many sorrows. Mrs. Coningsby died the same
day that her father-in-law was made a Marquess. He deserved his honours.
"""
,
"""
The four votes he had inherited in the House of Commons had been
increased, by his intense volition and unsparing means, to ten; and the
very day he was raised to his Marquisate, he commenced sapping fresh
corporations, and was working for the strawberry leaf. His honours were
proclaimed in the London Gazette, and her decease was not even noticed in
the County Chronicle; but the altars of Nemesis are beneath every outraged
roof, and the death of this unhappy lady, apparently without an earthly
friend or an earthly hope, desolate and deserted, and dying in obscure
poverty, was not forgotten.


Coningsby was not more than nine years of age when he lost his last
parent; and he had then been separated from her for nearly three years.
But he remembered the sweetness of his nursery days. His mother, too, had
written to him frequently since he quitted her, and her fond expressions
had cherished the tenderness of his heart. He wept bitterly when his
schoolmaster broke to him the news of his mother's death. True it was they
had been long parted, and their prospect of again meeting was vague and
dim; but his mother seemed to him his only link to human society. It was
something to have a mother, even if he never saw her. Other boys went to
see their mothers! he, at least, could talk of his. Now he was alone. His
grandfather was to him only a name. Lord Monmouth resided almost
constantly abroad, and during his rare visits to England had found no time
or inclination to see the orphan, with whom he felt no sympathy. Even the
death of the boy's mother, and the consequent arrangements, were notified
to his master by a stranger. The letter which brought the sad intelligence
was from Mr. Rigby. It was the first time that name had been known to
Coningsby.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Rigby was member for one of Lord Monmouth's boroughs. He was the
manager of Lord Monmouth's parliamentary influence, and the auditor of his
vast estates. He was more; he was Lord Monmouth's companion when in
England, his correspondent when abroad; hardly his counsellor, for Lord
Monmouth never required advice; but Mr. Rigby could instruct him in
matters of detail, which Mr. Rigby made amusing. Rigby was not a
professional man; indeed, his origin, education, early pursuits, and
studies, were equally obscure; but he had contrived in good time to
squeeze himself into parliament, by means which no one could ever
comprehend, and then set up to be a perfect man of business. The world
took him at his word, for he was bold, acute, and voluble; with no
thought, but a good deal of desultory information; and though destitute of
all imagination and noble sentiment, was blessed with a vigorous,
mendacious fancy, fruitful in small expedients, and never happier than
when devising shifts for great men's scrapes.


They say that all of us have one chance in this life, and so it was with
Rigby. After a struggle of many years, after a long series of the usual
alternatives of small successes and small failures, after a few cleverish
speeches and a good many cleverish pamphlets, with a considerable
reputation, indeed, for pasquinades, most of which he never wrote, and
articles in reviews to which it was whispered he had contributed, Rigby,
who had already intrigued himself into a subordinate office, met with Lord
Monmouth.


He was just the animal that Lord Monmouth wanted, for Lord Monmouth always
looked upon human nature with the callous eye of a jockey. He surveyed
Rigby; and he determined to buy him. He bought him; with his clear head,
his indefatigable industry, his audacious tongue, and his ready and
unscrupulous pen; with all his dates, all his lampoons; all his private
memoirs, and all his political intrigues. It was a good purchase. Rigby
became a great personage, and Lord Monmouth's man.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Rigby, who liked to be doing a great many things at the same time, and
to astonish the Tadpoles and Tapers with his energetic versatility,
determined to superintend the education of Coningsby. It was a relation
which identified him with the noble house of his pupil, or, properly
speaking, his charge: for Mr. Rigby affected rather the graceful dignity
of the governor than the duties of a tutor. The boy was recalled from his
homely, rural school, where he had been well grounded by a hard-working
curate, and affectionately tended by the curate's unsophisticated wife. He
was sent to a fashionable school preparatory to Eton, where he found about
two hundred youths of noble families and connections, lodged in a
magnificent villa, that had once been the retreat of a minister,
superintended by a sycophantic Doctor of Divinity, already well beneficed,
and not despairing of a bishopric by favouring the children of the great
nobles. The doctor's lady, clothed in cashmeres, sometimes inquired after
their health, and occasionally received a report as to their linen.


Mr. Rigby had a classical retreat, not distant from this establishment,
which he esteemed a Tusculum. There, surrounded by his busts and books, he
wrote his lampoons and articles; massacred a she liberal (it was thought
that no one could lash a woman like Rigby), cut up a rising genius whose
politics were different from his own, or scarified some unhappy wretch who
had brought his claims before parliament, proving, by garbled extracts
from official correspondence that no one could refer to, that the
malcontent instead of being a victim, was, on the contrary, a defaulter.
Tadpole and Taper would back Rigby for a 'slashing reply' against the
field. Here, too, at the end of a busy week, he found it occasionally
convenient to entertain a clever friend or two of equivocal reputation,
with whom he had become acquainted in former days of equal brotherhood. No
one was more faithful to his early friends than Mr. Rigby, particularly if
they could write a squib.
"""
,
"""
It was in this refined retirement that Mr. Rigby found time enough,
snatched from the toils of official life and parliamentary struggles, to
compose a letter on the study of History, addressed to Coningsby. The
style was as much like that of Lord Bolingbroke as if it had been written
by the authors of the 'Rejected Addresses,' and it began, 'My dear young
friend.' This polished composition, so full of good feeling and
comprehensive views, and all in the best taste, was not published. It was
only privately printed, and a few thousand copies were distributed among
select personages as an especial favour and mark of high consideration.
Each copy given away seemed to Rigby like a certificate of character; a
property which, like all men of dubious repute, he thoroughly appreciated.
Rigby intrigued very much that the headmaster of Eton should adopt his
discourse as a class-book. For this purpose he dined with the Doctor, told
him several anecdotes of the King, which intimated personal influence at
Windsor; but the headmaster was inflexible, and so Mr. Rigby was obliged
to be content with having his Letter on History canonized as a classic in
the Preparatory Seminary, where the individual to whom it was addressed
was a scholar.


This change in the life of Coningsby contributed to his happiness. The
various characters which a large school exhibited interested a young mind
whose active energies were beginning to stir. His previous acquirements
made his studies light; and he was fond of sports, in which he was
qualified to excel. He did not particularly like Mr. Rigby. There was
something jarring and grating in that gentleman's voice and modes, from
which the chords of the young heart shrank. He was not tender, though
perhaps he wished to be; scarcely kind: but he was good-natured, at least
to children. However, this connection was, on the whole, an agreeable one
for Coningsby. 
"""
,
"""
He seemed suddenly to have friends: he never passed his
holydays again at school. Mr. Rigby was so clever that he contrived always
to quarter Coningsby on the father of one of his school-fellows, for Mr.
Rigby knew all his school-fellows and all their fathers. Mr. Rigby also
called to see him, not unfrequently would give him a dinner at the Star
and Garter, or even have him up to town for a week to Whitehall. Compared
with his former forlorn existence, these were happy days, when he was
placed under the gallery as a member's son, or went to the play with the
butler!


When Coningsby had attained his twelfth year, an order was received from
Lord Monmouth, who was at Rome, that he should go at once to Eton. This
was the first great epoch of his life. There never was a youth who entered
into that wonderful little world with more eager zest than Coningsby. Nor
was it marvellous.


That delicious plain, studded with every creation of graceful culture;
hamlet and hall and grange; garden and grove and park; that castle-palace,
grey with glorious ages; those antique spires, hoar with faith and wisdom,
the chapel and the college; that river winding through the shady meads;
the sunny glade and the solemn avenue; the room in the Dame's house where
we first order our own breakfast and first feel we are free; the stirring
multitude, the energetic groups, the individual mind that leads, conquers,
controls; the emulation and the affection; the noble strife and the tender
sentiment; the daring exploit and the dashing scrape; the passion that
pervades our life, and breathes in everything, from the aspiring study to
the inspiring sport: oh! what hereafter can spur the brain and touch the
heart like this; can give us a world so deeply and variously interesting;
a life so full of quick and bright excitement, passed in a scene so fair?
"""
,
"""
The father of Mr. Ferrars had the reputation of being the son of a once
somewhat celebrated statesman, but the only patrimony he inherited from
his presumed parent was a clerkship in the Treasury, where he
found himself drudging at an early age. Nature had endowed him with
considerable abilities, and peculiarly adapted to the scene of their
display. It was difficult to decide which was most remarkable, his
shrewdness or his capacity of labour. His quickness of perception and
mastery of details made him in a few years an authority in the office,
and a Secretary of the Treasury, who was quite ignorant of details,
but who was a good judge of human character, had the sense to appoint
Ferrars his private secretary. This happy preferment in time opened the
whole official world to one not only singularly qualified for that kind
of life, but who possessed the peculiar gifts that were then commencing
to be much in demand in those circles. We were then entering that era
of commercial and financial reform which had been, if not absolutely
occasioned, certainly precipitated, by the revolt of our colonies.
Knowledge of finance and acquaintance with tariffs were then rare gifts,
and before five years of his private secretaryship had expired, Ferrars
was mentioned to Mr. Pitt as the man at the Treasury who could do
something that the great minister required. This decided his lot. Mr.
Pitt found in Ferrars the instrument he wanted, and appreciating all his
qualities placed him in a position which afforded them full play. The
minister returned Ferrars to Parliament, for the Treasury then had
boroughs of its own, and the new member was preferred to an important
and laborious post. So long as Pitt and Grenville were in the ascendant,
Mr. Ferrars toiled and flourished. He was exactly the man they liked;
unwearied, vigilant, clear and cold; with a dash of natural sarcasm
developed by a sharp and varied experience. 
"""
,
"""
He disappeared from the active world in the latter years of the Liverpool reign, when a newer
generation and more bustling ideas successfully asserted their
claims; but he retired with the solace of a sinecure, a pension, and
a privy-councillorship. The Cabinet he had never entered, nor dared to
hope to enter. It was the privilege of an inner circle even in our then
contracted public life. It was the dream of Ferrars to revenge in
this respect his fate in the person of his son, and only child. He
was resolved that his offspring should enjoy all those advantages
of education and breeding and society of which he himself had been
deprived. For him was to be reserved a full initiation in those costly
ceremonies which, under the names of Eton and Christ Church, in his time
fascinated and dazzled mankind. His son, William Pitt Ferrars, realised
even more than his father's hopes. Extremely good-looking, he was gifted
with a precocity of talent. He was the marvel of Eton and the hope
of Oxford. As a boy, his Latin verses threw enraptured tutors into
paroxysms of praise, while debating societies hailed with acclamation
clearly another heaven-born minister. He went up to Oxford about the
time that the examinations were reformed and rendered really efficient.
This only increased his renown, for the name of Ferrars figured among
the earliest double-firsts. Those were days when a crack university
reputation often opened the doors of the House of Commons to a young
aspirant; at least, after a season. But Ferrars had not to wait. His
father, who watched his career with the passionate interest with which a
Newmarket man watches the development of some gifted yearling, took care
that all the odds should be in his favour in the race of life. An old
colleague of the elder Mr. Ferrars, a worthy peer with many boroughs,
placed a seat at the disposal of the youthful hero, the moment he was
prepared to accept it, and he might be said to have left the University
only to enter the House of Commons.
"""
,
"""
There, if his career had not yet realised the dreams of his youthful
admirers, it had at least been one of progress and unbroken prosperity.
His first speech was successful, though florid, but it was on foreign
affairs, which permit rhetoric, and in those days demanded at least
one Virgilian quotation. In this latter branch of oratorical adornment
Ferrars was never deficient. No young man of that time, and scarcely any
old one, ventured to address Mr. Speaker without being equipped with a
Latin passage. Ferrars, in this respect, was triply armed. Indeed, when
he entered public life, full of hope and promise, though disciplined to
a certain extent by his mathematical training, he had read very little
more than some Latin writers, some Greek plays, and some treatises of
Aristotle. These with a due course of Bampton Lectures and some dipping
into the "Quarterly Review," then in its prime, qualified a man in
those days, not only for being a member of Parliament, but becoming a
candidate for the responsibility of statesmanship. Ferrars made his way;
for two years he was occasionally asked by the minister to speak, and
then Lord Castlereagh, who liked young men, made him a Lord of the
Treasury. He was Under-Secretary of State, and "very rising," when the
death of Lord Liverpool brought about the severance of the Tory party,
and Mr. Ferrars, mainly under the advice of zealots, resigned his office
when Mr. Canning was appointed Minister, and cast in his lot with the
great destiny of the Duke of Wellington.


The elder Ferrars had the reputation of being wealthy. It was supposed
that he had enjoyed opportunities of making money, and had availed
himself of them, but this was not true. Though a cynic, and with little
respect for his fellow-creatures, Ferrars had a pride in official
purity, and when the Government was charged with venality and
corruption, he would observe, with a dry chuckle, that he had seen a
great deal of life, and that for his part he would not much trust any
man out of Downing Street. He had been unable to resist the temptation
of connecting his life with that of an individual of birth and rank;
and in a weak moment, perhaps his only one, he had given his son
a stepmother in a still good-looking and very expensive
Viscountess-Dowager.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Ferrars was anxious that his son should make a great alliance, but
he was so distracted between prudential considerations and his desire
that in the veins of his grand-children there should flow blood of
undoubted nobility, that he could never bring to his purpose that clear
and concentrated will which was one of the causes of his success in
life; and, in the midst of his perplexities, his son unexpectedly
settled the question himself. Though naturally cold and calculating,
William Ferrars, like most of us, had a vein of romance in his being,
and it asserted itself. There was a Miss Carey, who suddenly became
the beauty of the season. She was an orphan, and reputed to be no
inconsiderable heiress, and was introduced to the world by an aunt
who was a duchess, and who meant that her niece should be the same.
Everybody talked about them, and they went everywhere--among other
places to the House of Commons, where Miss Carey, spying the senators
from the old ventilator in the ceiling of St. Stephen's Chapel, dropped
in her excitement her opera-glass, which fell at the feet of Mr.
Under-Secretary Ferrars. He hastened to restore it to its beautiful
owner, whom he found accompanied by several of his friends, and he was
not only thanked, but invited to remain with them; and the next day
he called, and he called very often afterwards, and many other things
happened, and at the end of July the beauty of the season was
married not to a Duke, but to a rising man, who Zenobia, who at first
disapproved of the match--for Zenobia never liked her male friends to
marry--was sure would one day be Prime Minister of England.
"""
,
"""
Mrs. Ferrars was of the same opinion as Zenobia, for she was ambitious,
and the dream was captivating. And Mrs. Ferrars soon gained Zenobia's
good graces, for she had many charms, and, though haughty to the
multitude, was a first-rate flatterer. Zenobia liked flattery, and
always said she did. Mr. Under-Secretary Ferrars took a mansion in Hill
Street, and furnished it with befitting splendour. His dinners were
celebrated, and Mrs. Ferrars gave suppers after the opera. The equipages
of Mrs. Ferrars were distinguished, and they had a large retinue of
servants. They had only two children, and they were twins, a brother and
a sister, who were brought up like the children of princes. Partly for
them, and partly because a minister should have a Tusculum, the Ferrars
soon engaged a magnificent villa at Wimbledon, which had the advantage
of admirable stables, convenient, as Mrs. Ferrars was fond of horses,
and liked the children too, with their fancy ponies, to be early
accustomed to riding. All this occasioned expenditure, but old Mr.
Ferrars made his son a liberal allowance, and young Mrs. Ferrars was an
heiress, or the world thought so, which is nearly the same, and then,
too, young Mr. Ferrars was a rising man, in office, and who would
always be in office for the rest of his life; at least, Zenobia said so,
because he was on the right side and the Whigs were nowhere, and never
would be anywhere, which was quite right, as they had wished to make us
the slaves of Bonaparte.


When the King, after much hesitation, send for Mr. Canning, on the
resignation of Lord Liverpool, the Zenobian theory seemed a little at
fault, and William Ferrars absolutely out of office had more than one
misgiving; but after some months of doubt and anxiety, it seemed after
all the great lady was right. 
"""
,
"""
The unexpected disappearance of Mr. Canning from the scene, followed by the transient and embarrassed
phantom of Lord Goderich, seemed to indicate an inexorable destiny that
England should be ruled by the most eminent men of the age, and the most
illustrious of her citizens. William Ferrars, under the inspiration of
Zenobia, had thrown in his fortunes with the Duke, and after nine months
of disquietude found his due reward. In the January that succeeded the
August conversation in St. James' Street with Sidney Wilton, William
Ferrars was sworn of the Privy Council, and held high office, on the
verge of the Cabinet.


Mr. Ferrars had a dinner party in Hill Street on the day he had returned
from Windsor with the seals of his new office. The catastrophe of the
Goderich Cabinet, almost on the eve of the meeting of Parliament, had
been so sudden, that, not anticipating such a state of affairs, Ferrars,
among his other guests, had invited Sidney Wilton. He was rather
regretting this when, as his carriage stopped at his own door, he
observed that very gentleman on his threshold.


Wilton greeted him warmly, and congratulated him on his promotion. "I
do so at once," he added, "because I shall not have the opportunity
this evening. I was calling here in the hope of seeing Mrs. Ferrars, and
asking her to excuse me from being your guest to-day."


"Well, it is rather awkward," said Ferrars, "but I could have no idea of
this when you were so kind as to say you would come."


"Oh, nothing of that sort," said Sidney. "I am out and you are in, and
I hope you may be in for a long, long time. I dare say it may be so, and
the Duke is the man of the age, as you always said he was. I hope your
being in office is not to deprive me of your pleasant dinners; it would
be too bad to lose my place both at Whitehall and in Hill Street."
"""
,
"""
"I trust that will never happen, my dear fellow; but to-day I thought it
might be embarrassing."


"Not at all; I could endure without wincing even the triumphant glances
of Zenobia. The fact is, I have some business of the most pressing
nature which has suddenly arisen, and which demands my immediate
attention."


Ferrars expressed his regret, though in fact he was greatly relieved,
and they parted.


Zenobia did dine with the William Ferrars to-day, and her handsome
husband came with her, a knight of the garter, and just appointed to a
high office in the household by the new government. Even the excitement
of the hour did not disturb his indigenous repose. It was a dignified
serenity, quite natural, and quite compatible with easy and even cordial
manners, and an address always considerate even when not sympathetic.
He was not a loud or a long talker, but his terse remarks were full
of taste and a just appreciation of things. If they were sometimes
trenchant, the blade was of fine temper. Old Mr. Ferrars was there and
the Viscountess Edgware. His hair had become quite silvered, and
his cheek rosy as a December apple. His hazel eyes twinkled with
satisfaction as he remembered the family had now produced two privy
councillors. Lord Pomeroy was there, the great lord who had returned
William Ferrars to Parliament, a little man, quite, shy, rather
insignificant in appearance, but who observed everybody and everything;
a conscientious man, who was always doing good, in silence and secrecy,
and denounced as a boroughmonger, had never sold a seat in his life, and
was always looking out for able men of character to introduce them to
public affairs. It was not a formal party, but had grown up in great
degree out of the circumstances of the moment. There were more men than
women, and all men in office or devoted supporters of the new ministry.
"""
,
"""
Mrs. Ferrars, without being a regular beauty, had a voluptuous face and
form. Her complexion was brilliant, with large and long-lashed eyes of
blue. Her mouth was certainly too large, but the pouting richness of her
lips and the splendour of her teeth baffled criticism. She was a woman
who was always gorgeously or fantastically attired.


"I never can understand," would sometimes observe Zenobia's husband to
his brilliant spouse, "how affairs are carried on in this world. Now we
have, my dear, fifty thousand per annum; and I do not see how Ferrars
can have much more than five; and yet he lives much as we do, perhaps
better. I know Gibson showed me a horse last week that I very much
wanted, but I would not give him two hundred guineas for it. I called
there to-day to look after it again, for it would have suited me
exactly, but I was told I was too late, and it was sold to Mrs.
Ferrars."


"My dear, you know I do not understand money matters," Zenobia said in
reply. "I never could; but you should remember that old Ferrars must be
very rich, and that William Ferrars is the most rising man of the day,
and is sure to be in the Cabinet before he is forty."


Everybody had an appetite for dinner to-day, and the dinner was worthy
of the appetites. Zenobia's husband declared to himself that he never
dined so well, though he gave his _chef_ 500 pounds a year, and old Lord
Pomeroy, who had not yet admitted French wines to his own table, seemed
quite abashed with the number of his wine-glasses and their various
colours, and, as he tasted one succulent dish after another, felt a
proud satisfaction in having introduced to public life so distinguished
a man as William Ferrars.
"""
,
"""
With the dessert, not without some ceremony, were introduced the two
most remarkable guests of the entertainment, and these were the twins;
children of singular beauty, and dressed, if possible, more fancifully
and brilliantly than their mamma. They resembled each other, and had the
same brilliant complexion, rich chestnut hair, delicately arched brows,
and dark blue eyes. Though only eight years of age, a most unchildlike
self-possession distinguished them. The expression of their countenances
was haughty, disdainful, and supercilious. Their beautiful features
seemed quite unimpassioned, and they moved as if they expected
everything to yield to them. The girl, whose long ringlets were braided
with pearls, was ushered to a seat next to her father, and, like her
brother, who was placed by Mrs. Ferrars, was soon engaged in negligently
tasting delicacies, while she seemed apparently unconscious of any one
being present, except when she replied to those who addressed her with a
stare and a haughty monosyllable. The boy, in a black velvet jacket
with large Spanish buttons of silver filagree, a shirt of lace, and a
waistcoat of white satin, replied with reserve, but some condescension,
to the good-natured but half-humorous inquiries of the husband of
Zenobia.


"And when do you go to school?" asked his lordship in a kind voice and
with a laughing eye.


"I shall go to Eton in two years," replied the child without the
slightest emotion, and not withdrawing his attention from the grapes he
was tasting, or even looking at his inquirer, "and then I shall go to
Christ Church, and then I shall go into Parliament."


"Myra," said an intimate of the family, a handsome private secretary of
Mr. Ferrars, to the daughter of the house, as he supplied her plate with
some choicest delicacies, "I hope you have not forgotten your engagement
to me which you made at Wimbledon two years ago?"
"""
,
"""
"What engagement?" she haughtily inquired.


"To marry me."


"I should not think of marrying any one who was not in the House of
Lords," she replied, and she shot at him a glance of contempt.


The ladies rose. As they were ascending the stairs, one of them said to
Mrs. Ferrars, "Your son's name is very pretty, but it is very uncommon,
is it not?"


"'Tis a family name. The first Carey who bore it was a courtier of
Charles the First, and we have never since been without it. William
wanted our boy to be christened Pomeroy but I was always resolved, if I
ever had a son, that he should be named ENDYMION."




About the time that the ladies rose from the dinner-table in Hill
Street, Mr. Sidney Wilton entered the hall of the Clarendon Hotel, and
murmured an inquiry of the porter. Whereupon a bell was rung, and soon
a foreign servant appeared, and bowing, invited Mr. Wilton to ascend the
staircase and follow him. Mr. Wilton was ushered through an ante-chamber
into a room of some importance, lofty and decorated, and obviously
adapted for distinguished guests. On a principal table a desk was open
and many papers strewn about. Apparently some person had only recently
been writing there. There were in the room several musical instruments;
the piano was open, there was a harp and a guitar. The room was rather
dimly lighted, but cheerful from the steady blaze of the fire, before
which Mr. Wilton stood, not long alone, for an opposite door opened, and
a lady advanced leading with her left hand a youth of interesting mien,
and about twelve years of age. The lady was fair and singularly thin. It
seemed that her delicate hand must really be transparent. Her cheek
was sunk, but the expression of her large brown eyes was inexpressibly
pleasing. 
"""
,
"""
She wore her own hair, once the most celebrated in Europe,
and still uncovered. Though the prodigal richness of the tresses had
disappeared, the arrangement was still striking from its grace. That
rare quality pervaded the being of this lady, and it was impossible not
to be struck with her carriage as she advanced to greet her guest; free
from all affectation and yet full of movement and gestures, which might
have been the study of painters.


"Ah!" she exclaimed as she gave him her hand, which he pressed to his
lips, "you are ever faithful."


Seating themselves, she continued, "You have not seen my boy since he
sate upon your knee. Florestan, salute Mr. Wilton, your mother's most
cherished friend."


"This is a sudden arrival," said Mr. Wilton.


"Well, they would not let us rest," said the lady. "Our only refuge was
Switzerland, but I cannot breathe among the mountains, and so, after
a while, we stole to an obscure corner of the south, and for a time we
were tranquil. But soon the old story: representations, remonstrances,
warnings, and threats, appeals to Vienna, and lectures from Prince
Metternich, not the less impressive because they were courteous, and
even gallant."


"And had nothing occurred to give a colour to such complaints? Or was it
sheer persecution?"


"Well, you know," replied the lady, "we wished to remain quiet and
obscure; but where the lad is, they will find him out. It often
astonishes me. I believe if we were in the centre of a forest in some
Indian isle, with no companions but monkeys and elephants, a secret
agent would appear--some devoted victim of our family, prepared to
restore our fortunes and renovate his own. I speak the truth to you
always. I have never countenanced these people; I have never encouraged
them; but it is impossible rudely to reject the sympathy of those who,
after all, are your fellow-sufferers, and some of who have given proof
of even disinterested devotion. 
"""
,
"""
For my own part, I have never faltered
in my faith, that Florestan would some day sit on the throne of his
father, dark as appears to be our life; but I have never much believed
that the great result could be occasioned or precipitated by intrigues,
but rather by events more powerful than man, and led on by that fatality
in which his father believed."


"And now you think of remaining here?" said Mr. Wilton.


"No," said the lady, "that I cannot do. I love everything in this
country except its climate and, perhaps, its hotels. I think of trying
the south of Spain, and fancy, if quite alone, I might vegetate there
unnoticed. I cannot bring myself altogether to quit Europe. I am, my
dear Sidney, intensely European. But Spain is not exactly the country
I should fix upon to form kings and statesmen. And this is the point
on which I wish to consult you. I want Florestan to receive an English
education, and I want you to put me in the way of accomplishing this.
It might be convenient, under such circumstances, that he should not
obtrude his birth--perhaps, that it should be concealed. He has many
honourable names besides the one which indicates the state to which he
was born. But, on all these points, we want your advice." And she seemed
to appeal to her son, who bowed his head with a slight smile, but did
not speak.


Mr. Wilton expressed his deep interest in her wishes, and promised to
consider how they might best be accomplished, and then the conversation
took a more general tone.


"This change of government in your country," said the lady, "so
unexpected, so utterly unforeseen, disturbs me; in fact, it decided my
hesitating movements. I cannot but believe that the accession of
the Duke of Wellington to power must be bad, at least, for us. It is
essentially reactionary. They are triumphing at Vienna."
"""
,
"""
"Have they cause?" said Mr. Wilton. "I am an impartial witness, for I
have no post in the new administration; but the leading colleagues of
Mr. Canning form part of it, and the conduct of foreign affairs remains
in the same hands."


"That is consoling," said the lady. "I wonder if Lord Dudley would see
me. Perhaps not. Ministers do not love pretenders. I knew him when I
was not a pretender," added the lady, with the sweetest of smiles, "and
thought him agreeable. He was witty. Ah! Sidney, those were happy days.
I look back to the past with regret, but without remorse. One might have
done more good, but one did some;" and she sighed.


"You seemed to me," said Sidney with emotion, "to diffuse benefit and
blessings among all around you."


"And I read," said the lady, a little indignant, "in some memoirs the
other day, that our court was a corrupt and dissolute court. It was
a court of pleasure, if you like; but of pleasure that animated and
refined, and put the world in good humour, which, after all, is good
government. The most corrupt and dissolute courts on the continent
of Europe that I have known," said the lady, "have been outwardly the
dullest and most decorous."


"My memory of those days," said Mr. Wilton, "is of ceaseless grace and
inexhaustible charm."


"Well," said the lady, "if I sinned I have at least suffered. And I hope
they were only sins of omission. I wanted to see everybody happy,
and tried to make them so. But let us talk no more of ourselves. The
unfortunate are always egotistical. Tell me something of Mr. Wilton;
and, above all, tell me why you are not in the new government."
"""
,
"""
"I have not been invited," said Mr. Wilton. "There are more claimants
than can be satisfied, and my claims are not very strong. It is scarcely
a disappointment to me. I shall continue in public life; but, so far as
political responsibility is concerned, I would rather wait. I have some
fancies on that head, but I will not trouble you with them. My time,
therefore, is at my command; and so," he added smilingly, "I can attend
to the education of Prince Florestan."


"Do you hear that, Florestan?" said the lady to her son; "I told you we
had a friend. Thank Mr. Wilton."


And the young Prince bowed as before, but with a more serious
expression. He, however, said nothing.


"I see you have not forgotten your most delightful pursuit," said Mr.
Wilton, and he looked towards the musical instruments.


"No," said the lady; "throned or discrowned, music has ever been the
charm or consolation of my life."


"Pleasure should follow business," said Mr. Wilton, "and we have
transacted ours. Would it be too bold if I asked again to hear those
tones which have so often enchanted me?"


"My voice has not fallen off," said the lady, "for you know it was never
first-rate. But they were kind enough to say it had some expression,
probably because I generally sang my own words to my own music. I will
sing you my farewell to Florestan," she added gaily, and took up her
guitar, and then in tones of melancholy sweetness, breaking at last into
a gushing burst of long-controlled affection, she expressed the agony
and devotion of a mother's heart. Mr. Wilton was a little agitated;
her son left the room. The mother turned round with a smiling face, and
said, "The darling cannot bear to hear it, but I sing it on purpose, to
prepare him for the inevitable."
"""
,
"""
"He is soft-hearted," said Mr. Wilton.


"He is the most affectionate of beings," replied the mother.
"Affectionate and mysterious. I can say no more. I ought to tell you his
character. I cannot. You may say he may have none. I do not know. He has
abilities, for he acquires knowledge with facility, and knows a
great deal for a boy. But he never gives an opinion. He is silent and
solitary. Poor darling! he has rarely had companions, and that may be
the cause. He seems to me always to be thinking."


"Well, a public school will rouse him from his reveries," said Mr.
Wilton.


"As he is away at this moment, I will say that which I should not care
to say before his face," said the lady. "You are about to do me a great
service, not the first; and before I leave this, we may--we must--meet
again more than once, but there is no time like the present. The
separation between Florestan and myself may be final. It is sad to think
of such things, but they must be thought of, for they are probable.
I still look in a mirror, Sidney; I am not so frightened by what has
occurred since we first met, to be afraid of that--but I never deceive
myself. I do not know what may be the magical effect of the raisins of
Malaga, but if it saves my life the grape cure will indeed achieve a
miracle. Do not look gloomy. Those who have known real grief seldom seem
sad. I have been struggling with sorrow for ten years, but I have got
through it with music and singing, and my boy. See now--he will be a
source of expense, and it will not do for you to be looking to a woman
for supplies. Women are generous, but not precise in money matters. 
"""
,
"""
I have some excuse, for the world has treated me not very well. I never
got my pension regularly; now I never get it at all. So much for
the treaties, but everybody laughs at them. Here is the fortune of
Florestan, and I wish it all to be spent on his education," and she
took a case from her bosom. "They are not the crown jewels, though. The
memoirs I was reading the other day say I ran away with them. That is
false, like most things said of me. But these are gems of Golconda,
which I wish you to realise and expend for his service. They were the
gift of love, and they were worn in love."


"It is unnecessary," said Mr. Wilton, deprecating the offer by his
attitude.


"Hush!" said the lady. "I am still a sovereign to you, and I must be
obeyed."


Mr. Wilton took the case of jewels, pressed it to his lips, and then
placed it in the breast pocket of his coat. He was about to retire, when
the lady added, "I must give you this copy of my song."


"And you will write my name on it?"


"Certainly," replied the lady, as she went to the table and wrote, "For
Mr. Sidney Wilton, from AGRIPPINA."


In the meantime, power and prosperity clustered round the roof and
family of Ferrars. He himself was in the prime of manhood, with an
exalted position in the world of politics, and with a prospect of the
highest. The Government of which he was a member was not only deemed
strong, but eternal. The favour of the Court and the confidence of the
country were alike lavished upon it. The government of the Duke could
only be measured by his life, and his influence was irresistible. It was
a dictatorship of patriotism. The country, long accustomed to a strong
and undisturbed administration, and frightened by the changes and
catastrophes which had followed the retirement of Lord Liverpool, took
refuge in the powerful will and splendid reputation of a real hero.
"""
,
"""
There are certain occurrences which we are in the habit of calling
"mental." Among these we may take as typical BELIEVING and DESIRING.
The exact definition of the word "mental" will, I hope, emerge as
the lectures proceed; for the present, I shall mean by it whatever
occurrences would commonly be called mental.


I wish in these lectures to analyse as fully as I can what it is that
really takes place when we, e.g. believe or desire. In this first
lecture I shall be concerned to refute a theory which is widely held,
and which I formerly held myself: the theory that the essence of
everything mental is a certain quite peculiar something called
"consciousness," conceived either as a relation to objects, or as a
pervading quality of psychical phenomena.


The reasons which I shall give against this theory will be mainly
derived from previous authors. There are two sorts of reasons, which
will divide my lecture into two parts:


(1) Direct reasons, derived from analysis and its difficulties;


(2) Indirect reasons, derived from observation of animals (comparative
psychology) and of the insane and hysterical (psycho-analysis).


Few things are more firmly established in popular philosophy than the
distinction between mind and matter. Those who are not professional
metaphysicians are willing to confess that they do not know what mind
actually is, or how matter is constituted; but they remain convinced
that there is an impassable gulf between the two, and that both belong
to what actually exists in the world. Philosophers, on the other hand,
have maintained often that matter is a mere fiction imagined by mind,
and sometimes that mind is a mere property of a certain kind of matter.
Those who maintain that mind is the reality and matter an evil dream are
called "idealists"--a word which has a different meaning in philosophy
from that which it bears in ordinary life. Those who argue that matter
is the reality and mind a mere property of protoplasm are called
"materialists." They have been rare among philosophers, but common,
at certain periods, among men of science. Idealists, materialists, and
ordinary mortals have been in agreement on one point: that they knew
sufficiently what they meant by the words "mind" and "matter" to be able
to conduct their debate intelligently. Yet it was just in this point, as
to which they were at one, that they seem to me to have been all alike
in error.
"""
,
"""
The stuff of which the world of our experience is composed is, in my
belief, neither mind nor matter, but something more primitive than
either. Both mind and matter seem to be composite, and the stuff of
which they are compounded lies in a sense between the two, in a sense
above them both, like a common ancestor. As regards matter, I have set
forth my reasons for this view on former occasions,* and I shall not now
repeat them. But the question of mind is more difficult, and it is this
question that I propose to discuss in these lectures. A great deal of
what I shall have to say is not original; indeed, much recent work, in
various fields, has tended to show the necessity of such theories as
those which I shall be advocating. Accordingly in this first lecture
I shall try to give a brief description of the systems of ideas within
which our investigation is to be carried on.


If there is one thing that may be said, in the popular estimation, to
characterize mind, that one thing is "consciousness." We say that we are
"conscious" of what we see and hear, of what we remember, and of our own
thoughts and feelings. Most of us believe that tables and chairs are
not "conscious." We think that when we sit in a chair, we are aware
of sitting in it, but it is not aware of being sat in. It cannot for
a moment be doubted that we are right in believing that there is SOME
difference between us and the chair in this respect: so much may be
taken as fact, and as a datum for our inquiry. But as soon as we try to
say what exactly the difference is, we become involved in perplexities.
Is "consciousness" ultimate and simple, something to be merely accepted
and contemplated? Or is it something complex, perhaps consisting in our
way of behaving in the presence of objects, or, alternatively, in the
existence in us of things called "ideas," having a certain relation
to objects, though different from them, and only symbolically
representative of them? Such questions are not easy to answer; but until
they are answered we cannot profess to know what we mean by saying that
we are possessed of "consciousness."
"""
,
"""
Before considering modern theories, let us look first at consciousness
from the standpoint of conventional psychology, since this embodies
views which naturally occur when we begin to reflect upon the subject.
For this purpose, let us as a preliminary consider different ways of
being conscious.


First, there is the way of PERCEPTION. We "perceive" tables and chairs,
horses and dogs, our friends, traffic passing in the street--in short,
anything which we recognize through the senses. I leave on one side for
the present the question whether pure sensation is to be regarded as a
form of consciousness: what I am speaking of now is perception, where,
according to conventional psychology, we go beyond the sensation to the
"thing" which it represents. When you hear a donkey bray, you not only
hear a noise, but realize that it comes from a donkey. When you see a
table, you not only see a coloured surface, but realize that it is hard.
The addition of these elements that go beyond crude sensation is said to
constitute perception. We shall have more to say about this at a later
stage. For the moment, I am merely concerned to note that perception
of objects is one of the most obvious examples of what is called
"consciousness." We are "conscious" of anything that we perceive.


We may take next the way of MEMORY. If I set to work to recall what
I did this morning, that is a form of consciousness different from
perception, since it is concerned with the past. There are various
problems as to how we can be conscious now of what no longer exists.
These will be dealt with incidentally when we come to the analysis of
memory.
"""
,
"""
From memory it is an easy step to what are called "ideas"--not in the
Platonic sense, but in that of Locke, Berkeley and Hume, in which they
are opposed to "impressions." You may be conscious of a friend either
by seeing him or by "thinking" of him; and by "thought" you can be
conscious of objects which cannot be seen, such as the human race,
or physiology. "Thought" in the narrower sense is that form of
consciousness which consists in "ideas" as opposed to impressions or
mere memories.


We may end our preliminary catalogue with BELIEF, by which I mean that
way of being conscious which may be either true or false. We say that a
man is "conscious of looking a fool," by which we mean that he believes
he looks a fool, and is not mistaken in this belief. This is a different
form of consciousness from any of the earlier ones. It is the form which
gives "knowledge" in the strict sense, and also error. It is, at least
apparently, more complex than our previous forms of consciousness;
though we shall find that they are not so separable from it as they
might appear to be.


Besides ways of being conscious there are other things that would
ordinarily be called "mental," such as desire and pleasure and pain.
These raise problems of their own, which we shall reach in Lecture III.
But the hardest problems are those that arise concerning ways of being
"conscious." These ways, taken together, are called the "cognitive"
elements in mind, and it is these that will occupy us most during the
following lectures.
"""
,
"""
There is one element which SEEMS obviously in common among the different
ways of being conscious, and that is, that they are all directed to
OBJECTS. We are conscious "of" something. The consciousness, it seems,
is one thing, and that of which we are conscious is another thing.
Unless we are to acquiesce in the view that we can never be conscious
of anything outside our own minds, we must say that the object of
consciousness need not be mental, though the consciousness must be. (I
am speaking within the circle of conventional doctrines, not expressing
my own beliefs.) This direction towards an object is commonly regarded
as typical of every form of cognition, and sometimes of mental life
altogether. We may distinguish two different tendencies in traditional
psychology. There are those who take mental phenomena naively, just as
they would physical phenomena. This school of psychologists tends not to
emphasize the object. On the other hand, there are those whose primary
interest is in the apparent fact that we have KNOWLEDGE, that there is a
world surrounding us of which we are aware. These men are interested in
the mind because of its relation to the world, because knowledge, if
it is a fact, is a very mysterious one. Their interest in psychology
is naturally centred in the relation of consciousness to its object, a
problem which, properly, belongs rather to theory of knowledge. We may
take as one of the best and most typical representatives of this school
the Austrian psychologist Brentano, whose "Psychology from the Empirical
Standpoint,"* though published in 1874, is still influential and was the
starting-point of a great deal of interesting work. He says (p. 115):


"Every psychical phenomenon is characterized by what the scholastics of
the Middle Ages called the intentional (also the mental) inexistence of
an object, and what we, although with not quite unambiguous expressions,
would call relation to a content, direction towards an object (which is
not here to be understood as a reality), or immanent objectivity. Each
contains something in itself as an object, though not each in the same
way. In presentation something is presented, in judgment something is
acknowledged or rejected, in love something is loved, in hatred hated,
in desire desired, and so on.
"""
,
"""
"This intentional inexistence is exclusively peculiar to psychical
phenomena. No physical phenomenon shows anything similar. And so we
can define psychical phenomena by saying that they are phenomena which
intentionally contain an object in themselves."


The view here expressed, that relation to an object is an ultimate
irreducible characteristic of mental phenomena, is one which I shall be
concerned to combat. Like Brentano, I am interested in psychology, not
so much for its own sake, as for the light that it may throw on the
problem of knowledge. Until very lately I believed, as he did, that
mental phenomena have essential reference to objects, except possibly in
the case of pleasure and pain. Now I no longer believe this, even in
the case of knowledge. I shall try to make my reasons for this rejection
clear as we proceed. It must be evident at first glance that the
analysis of knowledge is rendered more difficult by the rejection; but
the apparent simplicity of Brentano's view of knowledge will be found,
if I am not mistaken, incapable of maintaining itself either against
an analytic scrutiny or against a host of facts in psycho-analysis and
animal psychology. I do not wish to minimize the problems. I will
merely observe, in mitigation of our prospective labours, that thinking,
however it is to be analysed, is in itself a delightful occupation,
and that there is no enemy to thinking so deadly as a false simplicity.
Travelling, whether in the mental or the physical world, is a joy, and
it is good to know that, in the mental world at least, there are vast
countries still very imperfectly explored.


The view expressed by Brentano has been held very generally, and
developed by many writers. Among these we may take as an example his
Austrian successor Meinong.* According to him there are three elements
involved in the thought of an object. These three he calls the act, the
content and the object. 
"""
,
"""
The act is the same in any two cases of the same
kind of consciousness; for instance, if I think of Smith or think
of Brown, the act of thinking, in itself, is exactly similar on both
occasions. But the content of my thought, the particular event that
is happening in my mind, is different when I think of Smith and when I
think of Brown. The content, Meinong argues, must not be confounded with
the object, since the content must exist in my mind at the moment when
I have the thought, whereas the object need not do so. The object may
be something past or future; it may be physical, not mental; it may
be something abstract, like equality for example; it may be something
imaginary, like a golden mountain; or it may even be something
self-contradictory, like a round square. But in all these cases, so
he contends, the content exists when the thought exists, and is what
distinguishes it, as an occurrence, from other thoughts.


To make this theory concrete, let us suppose that you are thinking of
St. Paul's. Then, according to Meinong, we have to distinguish three
elements which are necessarily combined in constituting the one thought.
First, there is the act of thinking, which would be just the same
whatever you were thinking about. Then there is what makes the character
of the thought as contrasted with other thoughts; this is the content.
And finally there is St. Paul's, which is the object of your thought.
There must be a difference between the content of a thought and what it
is about, since the thought is here and now, whereas what it is about
may not be; hence it is clear that the thought is not identical with St.
Paul's. This seems to show that we must distinguish between content
and object. But if Meinong is right, there can be no thought without an
object: the connection of the two is essential. The object might exist
without the thought, but not the thought without the object: the three
elements of act, content and object are all required to constitute the
one single occurrence called "thinking of St. Paul's."
"""
,
"""
The above analysis of a thought, though I believe it to be mistaken, is
very useful as affording a schema in terms of which other theories can
be stated. In the remainder of the present lecture I shall state in
outline the view which I advocate, and show how various other views
out of which mine has grown result from modifications of the threefold
analysis into act, content and object.


The first criticism I have to make is that the ACT seems unnecessary and
fictitious. The occurrence of the content of a thought constitutes
the occurrence of the thought. Empirically, I cannot discover anything
corresponding to the supposed act; and theoretically I cannot see that
it is indispensable. We say: "_I_ think so-and-so," and this word "I"
suggests that thinking is the act of a person. Meinong's "act" is the
ghost of the subject, or what once was the full-blooded soul. It is
supposed that thoughts cannot just come and go, but need a person to
think them. Now, of course it is true that thoughts can be collected
into bundles, so that one bundle is my thoughts, another is your
thoughts, and a third is the thoughts of Mr. Jones. But I think
the person is not an ingredient in the single thought: he is rather
constituted by relations of the thoughts to each other and to the body.
This is a large question, which need not, in its entirety, concern us
at present. All that I am concerned with for the moment is that the
grammatical forms "I think," "you think," and "Mr. Jones thinks," are
misleading if regarded as indicating an analysis of a single thought.
It would be better to say "it thinks in me," like "it rains here"; or
better still, "there is a thought in me." This is simply on the
ground that what Meinong calls the act in thinking is not empirically
discoverable, or logically deducible from what we can observe.
"""
,
"""
The next point of criticism concerns the relation of content and object.
The reference of thoughts to objects is not, I believe, the simple
direct essential thing that Brentano and Meinong represent it as being.
It seems to me to be derivative, and to consist largely in BELIEFS:
beliefs that what constitutes the thought is connected with various
other elements which together make up the object. You have, say, an
image of St. Paul's, or merely the word "St. Paul's" in your head. You
believe, however vaguely and dimly, that this is connected with what
you would see if you went to St. Paul's, or what you would feel if you
touched its walls; it is further connected with what other people see
and feel, with services and the Dean and Chapter and Sir Christopher
Wren. These things are not mere thoughts of yours, but your thought
stands in a relation to them of which you are more or less aware. The
awareness of this relation is a further thought, and constitutes
your feeling that the original thought had an "object." But in pure
imagination you can get very similar thoughts without these accompanying
beliefs; and in this case your thoughts do not have objects or seem to
have them. Thus in such instances you have content without object. On
the other hand, in seeing or hearing it would be less misleading to
say that you have object without content, since what you see or hear is
actually part of the physical world, though not matter in the sense of
physics. Thus the whole question of the relation of mental occurrences
to objects grows very complicated, and cannot be settled by regarding
reference to objects as of the essence of thoughts. All the above
remarks are merely preliminary, and will be expanded later.
"""
,
"""
Speaking in popular and unphilosophical terms, we may say that the
content of a thought is supposed to be something in your head when you
think the thought, while the object is usually something in the outer
world. It is held that knowledge of the outer world is constituted by
the relation to the object, while the fact that knowledge is different
from what it knows is due to the fact that knowledge comes by way of
contents. We can begin to state the difference between realism and
idealism in terms of this opposition of contents and objects. Speaking
quite roughly and approximately, we may say that idealism tends to
suppress the object, while realism tends to suppress the content.
Idealism, accordingly, says that nothing can be known except thoughts,
and all the reality that we know is mental; while realism maintains that
we know objects directly, in sensation certainly, and perhaps also in
memory and thought. Idealism does not say that nothing can be known
beyond the present thought, but it maintains that the context of vague
belief, which we spoke of in connection with the thought of St. Paul's,
only takes you to other thoughts, never to anything radically different
from thoughts. The difficulty of this view is in regard to sensation,
where it seems as if we came into direct contact with the outer world.
But the Berkeleian way of meeting this difficulty is so familiar that I
need not enlarge upon it now. I shall return to it in a later lecture,
and will only observe, for the present, that there seem to me no valid
grounds for regarding what we see and hear as not part of the physical
world.


Realists, on the other hand, as a rule, suppress the content, and
maintain that a thought consists either of act and object alone, or of
object alone. I have been in the past a realist, and I remain a realist
as regards sensation, but not as regards memory or thought. I will try
to explain what seem to me to be the reasons for and against various
kinds of realism.
"""
,
"""
Modern idealism professes to be by no means confined to the present
thought or the present thinker in regard to its knowledge; indeed, it
contends that the world is so organic, so dove-tailed, that from any
one portion the whole can be inferred, as the complete skeleton of an
extinct animal can be inferred from one bone. But the logic by which
this supposed organic nature of the world is nominally demonstrated
appears to realists, as it does to me, to be faulty. They argue that,
if we cannot know the physical world directly, we cannot really know
any thing outside our own minds: the rest of the world may be merely our
dream. This is a dreary view, and they there fore seek ways of escaping
from it. Accordingly they maintain that in knowledge we are in direct
contact with objects, which may be, and usually are, outside our own
minds. No doubt they are prompted to this view, in the first place, by
bias, namely, by the desire to think that they can know of the existence
of a world outside themselves. But we have to consider, not what led
them to desire the view, but whether their arguments for it are valid.


There are two different kinds of realism, according as we make a thought
consist of act and object, or of object alone. Their difficulties are
different, but neither seems tenable all through. Take, for the sake of
definiteness, the remembering of a past event. The remembering occurs
now, and is therefore necessarily not identical with the past event.
So long as we retain the act, this need cause no difficulty. The act
of remembering occurs now, and has on this view a certain essential
relation to the past event which it remembers. 
"""
,
"""
There is no LOGICAL objection to this theory, but there is the objection, which we spoke
of earlier, that the act seems mythical, and is not to be found by
observation. If, on the other hand, we try to constitute memory without
the act, we are driven to a content, since we must have something that
happens NOW, as opposed to the event which happened in the past. Thus,
when we reject the act, which I think we must, we are driven to a theory
of memory which is more akin to idealism. These arguments, however, do
not apply to sensation. It is especially sensation, I think, which is
considered by those realists who retain only the object.* Their views,
which are chiefly held in America, are in large measure derived from
William James, and before going further it will be well to consider
the revolutionary doctrine which he advocated. I believe this doctrine
contains important new truth, and what I shall have to say will be in a
considerable measure inspired by it.


William James's view was first set forth in an essay called "Does
'consciousness' exist?"* In this essay he explains how what used to be
the soul has gradually been refined down to the "transcendental ego,"
which, he says, "attenuates itself to a thoroughly ghostly condition,
being only a name for the fact that the 'content' of experience IS
KNOWN. It loses personal form and activity--these passing over to the
content--and becomes a bare Bewusstheit or Bewusstsein uberhaupt, of
which in its own right absolutely nothing can be said. I believe (he
continues) that 'consciousness,' when once it has evaporated to this
estate of pure diaphaneity, is on the point of disappearing altogether.
It is the name of a nonentity, and has no right to a place among first
principles. Those who still cling to it are clinging to a mere echo,
the faint rumour left behind by the disappearing 'soul' upon the air of
philosophy"(p. 2).
"""
,
"""
He explains that this is no sudden change in his opinions. "For twenty
years past," he says, "I have mistrusted 'consciousness' as an entity;
for seven or eight years past I have suggested its non-existence to my
students, and tried to give them its pragmatic equivalent in realities
of experience. It seems to me that the hour is ripe for it to be openly
and universally discarded"(p. 3).


His next concern is to explain away the air of paradox, for James
was never wilfully paradoxical. "Undeniably," he says, "'thoughts' do
exist." "I mean only to deny that the word stands for an entity, but to
insist most emphatically that it does stand for a function. There is, I
mean, no aboriginal stuff or quality of being, contrasted with that of
which material objects are made, out of which our thoughts of them are
made; but there is a function in experience which thoughts perform,
and for the performance of which this quality of being is invoked. That
function is KNOWING"(pp. 3-4).


James's view is that the raw material out of which the world is built
up is not of two sorts, one matter and the other mind, but that it is
arranged in different patterns by its inter-relations, and that some
arrangements may be called mental, while others may be called physical.


"My thesis is," he says, "that if we start with the supposition that
there is only one primal stuff or material in the world, a stuff
of which everything is composed, and if we call that stuff 'pure
experience,' then knowing can easily be explained as a particular sort
of relation towards one another into which portions of pure experience
may enter. The relation itself is a part of pure experience; one of its
'terms' becomes the subject or bearer of the knowledge, the knower, the
other becomes the object known"(p. 4).
"""
,
"""
After mentioning the duality of subject and object, which is supposed
to constitute consciousness, he proceeds in italics: "EXPERIENCE, I
BELIEVE, HAS NO SUCH INNER DUPLICITY; AND THE SEPARATION OF IT INTO
CONSCIOUSNESS AND CONTENT COMES, NOT BY WAY OF SUBTRACTION, BUT BY WAY
OF ADDITION"(p. 9).


He illustrates his meaning by the analogy of paint as it appears in a
paint-shop and as it appears in a picture: in the one case it is just
"saleable matter," while in the other it "performs a spiritual function.
Just so, I maintain (he continues), does a given undivided portion
of experience, taken in one context of associates, play the part of a
knower, of a state of mind, of 'consciousness'; while in a different
context the same undivided bit of experience plays the part of a thing
known, of an objective 'content.' In a word, in one group it figures as
a thought, in another group as a thing"(pp. 9-10).


He does not believe in the supposed immediate certainty of thought. "Let
the case be what it may in others," he says, "I am as confident as I am
of anything that, in myself, the stream of thinking (which I recognize
emphatically as a phenomenon) is only a careless name for what, when
scrutinized, reveals itself to consist chiefly of the stream of my
breathing. The 'I think' which Kant said must be able to accompany all
my objects, is the 'I breathe' which actually does accompany them"(pp.
36-37).


The same view of "consciousness" is set forth in the succeeding essay,
"A World of Pure Experience" (ib., pp. 39-91). The use of the phrase
"pure experience" in both essays points to a lingering influence of
idealism. "Experience," like "consciousness," must be a product, not
part of the primary stuff of the world. It must be possible, if James is
right in his main contentions, that roughly the same stuff, differently
arranged, would not give rise to anything that could be called
"experience." 
"""
,
"""
This word has been dropped by the American realists, among
whom we may mention specially Professor R. B. Perry of Harvard and Mr.
Edwin B. Holt. The interests of this school are in general philosophy
and the philosophy of the sciences, rather than in psychology; they have
derived a strong impulsion from James, but have more interest than he
had in logic and mathematics and the abstract part of philosophy. They
speak of "neutral" entities as the stuff out of which both mind and
matter are constructed. Thus Holt says: "If the terms and propositions
of logic must be substantialized, they are all strictly of one
substance, for which perhaps the least dangerous name is neutral-stuff.
The relation of neutral-stuff to matter and mind we shall have presently
to consider at considerable length." 
My own belief--for which the reasons will appear in subsequent
lectures--is that James is right in rejecting consciousness as an
entity, and that the American realists are partly right, though not
wholly, in considering that both mind and matter are composed of a
neutral-stuff which, in isolation, is neither mental nor material. I
should admit this view as regards sensations: what is heard or seen
belongs equally to psychology and to physics. But I should say that
images belong only to the mental world, while those occurrences (if any)
which do not form part of any "experience" belong only to the physical
world. There are, it seems to me, prima facie different kinds of causal
laws, one belonging to physics and the other to psychology. The law
of gravitation, for example, is a physical law, while the law of
association is a psychological law. Sensations are subject to both kinds
of laws, and are therefore truly "neutral" in Holt's sense. But entities
subject only to physical laws, or only to psychological laws, are not
neutral, and may be called respectively purely material and purely
mental. Even those, however, which are purely mental will not have that
intrinsic reference to objects which Brentano assigns to them and which
constitutes the essence of "consciousness" as ordinarily understood. But
it is now time to pass on to other modern tendencies, also hostile to
"consciousness."
"""
,
"""
There is a psychological school called "Behaviourists," of whom the
protagonist is Professor John B. Watson,* formerly of the Johns Hopkins
University. To them also, on the whole, belongs Professor John Dewey,
who, with James and Dr. Schiller, was one of the three founders of
pragmatism. The view of the "behaviourists" is that nothing can be known
except by external observation. They deny altogether that there is a
separate source of knowledge called "introspection," by which we can
know things about ourselves which we could never observe in others.
They do not by any means deny that all sorts of things MAY go on in
our minds: they only say that such things, if they occur, are not
susceptible of scientific observation, and do not therefore concern
psychology as a science. Psychology as a science, they say, is only
concerned with BEHAVIOUR, i.e. with what we DO; this alone, they
contend, can be accurately observed. Whether we think meanwhile, they
tell us, cannot be known; in their observation of the behaviour of human
beings, they have not so far found any evidence of thought. True, we
talk a great deal, and imagine that in so doing we are showing that we
can think; but behaviourists say that the talk they have to listen to
can be explained without supposing that people think. Where you might
expect a chapter on "thought processes" you come instead upon a chapter
on "The Language Habit." It is humiliating to find how terribly adequate
this hypothesis turns out to be.


Behaviourism has not, however, sprung from observing the folly of men.
It is the wisdom of animals that has suggested the view. It has always
been a common topic of popular discussion whether animals "think." On
this topic people are prepared to take sides without having the vaguest
idea what they mean by "thinking." Those who desired to investigate such
questions were led to observe the behaviour of animals, in the hope that
their behaviour would throw some light on their mental faculties.
"""
,
"""
At first sight, it might seem that this is so. People say that a
dog "knows" its name because it comes when it is called, and that it
"remembers" its master, because it looks sad in his absence, but wags
its tail and barks when he returns. That the dog behaves in this way is
matter of observation, but that it "knows" or "remembers" anything is an
inference, and in fact a very doubtful one. The more such inferences are
examined, the more precarious they are seen to be. Hence the study of
animal behaviour has been gradually led to abandon all attempt at mental
interpretation. And it can hardly be doubted that, in many cases of
complicated behaviour very well adapted to its ends, there can be no
prevision of those ends. The first time a bird builds a nest, we can
hardly suppose it knows that there will be eggs to be laid in it, or
that it will sit on the eggs, or that they will hatch into young birds.
It does what it does at each stage because instinct gives it an impulse
to do just that, not because it foresees and desires the result of its
actions.
Careful observers of animals, being anxious to avoid precarious
inferences, have gradually discovered more and more how to give
an account of the actions of animals without assuming what we call
"consciousness." It has seemed to the behaviourists that similar methods
can be applied to human behaviour, without assuming anything not open
to external observation. Let us give a crude illustration, too crude for
the authors in question, but capable of affording a rough insight into
their meaning. Suppose two children in a school, both of whom are asked
"What is six times nine?" One says fifty-four, the other says fifty-six.
The one, we say, "knows" what six times nine is, the other does not. 
"""
,
"""
But all that we can observe is a certain language-habit. The one child has
acquired the habit of saying "six times nine is fifty-four"; the other
has not. There is no more need of "thought" in this than there is when
a horse turns into his accustomed stable; there are merely more numerous
and complicated habits. There is obviously an observable fact called
"knowing" such-and-such a thing; examinations are experiments for
discovering such facts. But all that is observed or discovered is a
certain set of habits in the use of words. The thoughts (if any) in the
mind of the examinee are of no interest to the examiner; nor has the
examiner any reason to suppose even the most successful examinee capable
of even the smallest amount of thought.


Thus what is called "knowing," in the sense in which we can ascertain
what other people "know," is a phenomenon exemplified in their physical
behaviour, including spoken and written words. There is no reason--so
Watson argues--to suppose that their knowledge IS anything beyond the
habits shown in this behaviour: the inference that other people
have something nonphysical called "mind" or "thought" is therefore
unwarranted.


So far, there is nothing particularly repugnant to our prejudices in the
conclusions of the behaviourists. We are all willing to admit that
other people are thoughtless. But when it comes to ourselves, we feel
convinced that we can actually perceive our own thinking. "Cogito, ergo
sum" would be regarded by most people as having a true premiss. This,
however, the behaviourist denies. He maintains that our knowledge of
ourselves is no different in kind from our knowledge of other people.
We may see MORE, because our own body is easier to observe than that of
other people; but we do not see anything radically unlike what we see
of others. Introspection, as a separate source of knowledge, is entirely
denied by psychologists of this school. 
"""
,
"""
I shall discuss this question at
length in a later lecture; for the present I will only observe that
it is by no means simple, and that, though I believe the behaviourists
somewhat overstate their case, yet there is an important element of
truth in their contention, since the things which we can discover by
introspection do not seem to differ in any very fundamental way from the
things which we discover by external observation.


So far, we have been principally concerned with knowing. But it might
well be maintained that desiring is what is really most characteristic
of mind. Human beings are constantly engaged in achieving some end
they feel pleasure in success and pain in failure. In a purely material
world, it may be said, there would be no opposition of pleasant and
unpleasant, good and bad, what is desired and what is feared. A man's
acts are governed by purposes. He decides, let us suppose, to go to a
certain place, whereupon he proceeds to the station, takes his ticket
and enters the train. If the usual route is blocked by an accident,
he goes by some other route. All that he does is determined--or so it
seems--by the end he has in view, by what lies in front of him, rather
than by what lies behind. With dead matter, this is not the case.
A stone at the top of a hill may start rolling, but it shows no
pertinacity in trying to get to the bottom. Any ledge or obstacle will
stop it, and it will exhibit no signs of discontent if this happens. It
is not attracted by the pleasantness of the valley, as a sheep or cow
might be, but propelled by the steepness of the hill at the place
where it is. In all this we have characteristic differences between the
behaviour of animals and the behaviour of matter as studied by physics.
"""
,
"""
Desire, like knowledge, is, of course, in one sense an observable
phenomenon. An elephant will eat a bun, but not a mutton chop; a duck
will go into the water, but a hen will not. But when we think of our
own desires, most people believe that we can know them by an immediate
self-knowledge which does not depend upon observation of our actions.
Yet if this were the case, it would be odd that people are so often
mistaken as to what they desire. It is matter of common observation that
"so-and-so does not know his own motives," or that "A is envious of B
and malicious about him, but quite unconscious of being so." Such people
are called self-deceivers, and are supposed to have had to go through
some more or less elaborate process of concealing from themselves what
would otherwise have been obvious. I believe that this is an entire
mistake. I believe that the discovery of our own motives can only be
made by the same process by which we discover other people's, namely,
the process of observing our actions and inferring the desire which
could prompt them. A desire is "conscious" when we have told ourselves
that we have it. A hungry man may say to himself: "Oh, I do want my
lunch." Then his desire is "conscious." But it only differs from an
"unconscious" desire by the presence of appropriate words, which is by
no means a fundamental difference.


The belief that a motive is normally conscious makes it easier to be
mistaken as to our own motives than as to other people's. When some
desire that we should be ashamed of is attributed to us, we notice that
we have never had it consciously, in the sense of saying to ourselves,
"I wish that would happen." We therefore look for some other
interpretation of our actions, and regard our friends as very unjust
when they refuse to be convinced by our repudiation of what we hold to
be a calumny. 
"""
,
"""
Moral considerations greatly increase the difficulty of
clear thinking in this matter. It is commonly argued that people are not
to blame for unconscious motives, but only for conscious ones. In order,
therefore, to be wholly virtuous it is only necessary to repeat virtuous
formulas. We say: "I desire to be kind to my friends, honourable in
business, philanthropic towards the poor, public-spirited in politics."
So long as we refuse to allow ourselves, even in the watches of the
night, to avow any contrary desires, we may be bullies at home, shady in
the City, skinflints in paying wages and profiteers in dealing with the
public; yet, if only conscious motives are to count in moral valuation,
we shall remain model characters. This is an agreeable doctrine, and
it is not surprising that men are un willing to abandon it. But moral
considerations are the worst enemies of the scientific spirit and we
must dismiss them from our minds if we wish to arrive at truth.


I believe--as I shall try to prove in a later lecture--that desire,
like force in mechanics, is of the nature of a convenient fiction
for describing shortly certain laws of behaviour. A hungry animal is
restless until it finds food; then it becomes quiescent. The thing which
will bring a restless condition to an end is said to be what is desired.
But only experience can show what will have this sedative effect, and it
is easy to make mistakes. We feel dissatisfaction, and think that
such and-such a thing would remove it; but in thinking this, we are
theorizing, not observing a patent fact. Our theorizing is often
mistaken, and when it is mistaken there is a difference between what we
think we desire and what in fact will bring satisfaction. This is such
a common phenomenon that any theory of desire which fails to account for
it must be wrong.
"""
,
"""
What have been called "unconscious" desires have been brought very much
to the fore in recent years by psycho-analysis. Psycho-analysis, as
every one knows, is primarily a method of understanding hysteria and
certain forms of insanity*; but it has been found that there is much
in the lives of ordinary men and women which bears a humiliating
resemblance to the delusions of the insane. The connection of dreams,
irrational beliefs and foolish actions with unconscious wishes has been
brought to light, though with some exaggeration, by Freud and Jung and
their followers. As regards the nature of these unconscious wishes,
it seems to me--though as a layman I speak with diffidence--that many
psycho-analysts are unduly narrow; no doubt the wishes they emphasize
exist, but others, e.g. for honour and power, are equally operative and
equally liable to concealment. This, however, does not affect the
value of their general theories from the point of view of theoretic
psychology, and it is from this point of view that their results are
important for the analysis of mind.


What, I think, is clearly established, is that a man's actions and
beliefs may be wholly dominated by a desire of which he is quite
unconscious, and which he indignantly repudiates when it is suggested
to him. Such a desire is generally, in morbid cases, of a sort which
the patient would consider wicked; if he had to admit that he had the
desire, he would loathe himself. Yet it is so strong that it must force
an outlet for itself; hence it becomes necessary to entertain whole
systems of false beliefs in order to hide the nature of what is desired.
The resulting delusions in very many cases disappear if the hysteric or
lunatic can be made to face the facts about himself. The consequence
of this is that the treatment of many forms of insanity has grown more
psychological and less physiological than it used to be. 
"""
,
"""
Instead of looking for a physical defect in the brain, those who treat delusions
look for the repressed desire which has found this contorted mode
of expression. For those who do not wish to plunge into the somewhat
repulsive and often rather wild theories of psychoanalytic pioneers, it
will be worth while to read a little book by Dr. Bernard Hart on "The
Psychology of Insanity."* On this question of the mental as opposed to
the physiological study of the causes of insanity, Dr. Hart says:


"The psychological conception [of insanity] is based on the view that
mental processes can be directly studied without any reference to the
accompanying changes which are presumed to take place in the brain, and
that insanity may therefore be properly attacked from the standpoint of
psychology"(p. 9).


This illustrates a point which I am anxious to make clear from the
outset. Any attempt to classify modern views, such as I propose to
advocate, from the old standpoint of materialism and idealism, is only
misleading. In certain respects, the views which I shall be setting
forth approximate to materialism; in certain others, they approximate to
its opposite. On this question of the study of delusions, the practical
effect of the modern theories, as Dr. Hart points out, is emancipation
from the materialist method. On the other hand, as he also points
out (pp. 38-9), imbecility and dementia still have to be considered
physiologically, as caused by defects in the brain. There is no
inconsistency in this If, as we maintain, mind and matter are neither of
them the actual stuff of reality, but different convenient groupings of
an underlying material, then, clearly, the question whether, in regard
to a given phenomenon, we are to seek a physical or a mental cause, is
merely one to be decided by trial. Metaphysicians have argued endlessly
as to the interaction of mind and matter. 
"""
,
"""
The followers of Descartes held that mind and matter are so different as to make any action of the
one on the other impossible. When I will to move my arm, they said,
it is not my will that operates on my arm, but God, who, by His
omnipotence, moves my arm whenever I want it moved. The modern doctrine
of psychophysical parallelism is not appreciably different from this
theory of the Cartesian school. Psycho-physical parallelism is the
theory that mental and physical events each have causes in their own
sphere, but run on side by side owing to the fact that every state of
the brain coexists with a definite state of the mind, and vice versa.
This view of the reciprocal causal independence of mind and matter has
no basis except in metaphysical theory.* For us, there is no necessity
to make any such assumption, which is very difficult to harmonize with
obvious facts. I receive a letter inviting me to dinner: the letter is
a physical fact, but my apprehension of its meaning is mental. Here we
have an effect of matter on mind. In consequence of my apprehension of
the meaning of the letter, I go to the right place at the right time;
here we have an effect of mind on matter. I shall try to persuade you,
in the course of these lectures, that matter is not so material and mind
not so mental as is generally supposed. When we are speaking of matter,
it will seem as if we were inclining to idealism; when we are speaking
of mind, it will seem as if we were inclining to materialism. Neither
is the truth. Our world is to be constructed out of what the American
realists call "neutral" entities, which have neither the hardness and
indestructibility of matter, nor the reference to objects which is
supposed to characterize mind.


There is, it is true, one objection which might be felt, not indeed to
the action of matter on mind, but to the action of mind on matter. 
"""
,
"""
The laws of physics, it may be urged, are apparently adequate to explain
everything that happens to matter, even when it is matter in a man's
brain. This, however, is only a hypothesis, not an established theory.
There is no cogent empirical reason for supposing that the laws
determining the motions of living bodies are exactly the same as those
that apply to dead matter. Sometimes, of course, they are clearly the
same. When a man falls from a precipice or slips on a piece of orange
peel, his body behaves as if it were devoid of life. These are the
occasions that make Bergson laugh. But when a man's bodily movements
are what we call "voluntary," they are, at any rate prima facie, very
different in their laws from the movements of what is devoid of life.
I do not wish to say dogmatically that the difference is irreducible;
I think it highly probable that it is not. I say only that the study of
the behaviour of living bodies, in the present state of our knowledge,
is distinct from physics. The study of gases was originally quite
distinct from that of rigid bodies, and would never have advanced to its
present state if it had not been independently pursued. Nowadays both
the gas and the rigid body are manufactured out of a more primitive and
universal kind of matter. In like manner, as a question of methodology,
the laws of living bodies are to be studied, in the first place, without
any undue haste to subordinate them to the laws of physics. Boyle's law
and the rest had to be discovered before the kinetic theory of gases
became possible. But in psychology we are hardly yet at the stage
of Boyle's law. Meanwhile we need not be held up by the bogey of
the universal rigid exactness of physics. This is, as yet, a mere
hypothesis, to be tested empirically without any preconceptions. It may
be true, or it may not. So far, that is all we can say.
"""
,
"""
Returning from this digression to our main topic, namely, the criticism
of "consciousness," we observe that Freud and his followers, though they
have demonstrated beyond dispute the immense importance of "unconscious"
desires in determining our actions and beliefs, have not attempted the
task of telling us what an "unconscious" desire actually is, and have
thus invested their doctrine with an air of mystery and mythology which
forms a large part of its popular attractiveness. They speak always as
though it were more normal for a desire to be conscious, and as though
a positive cause had to be assigned for its being unconscious. Thus
"the unconscious" becomes a sort of underground prisoner, living in a
dungeon, breaking in at long intervals upon our daylight respectability
with dark groans and maledictions and strange atavistic lusts. The
ordinary reader, almost inevitably, thinks of this underground person as
another consciousness, prevented by what Freud calls the "censor" from
making his voice heard in company, except on rare and dreadful occasions
when he shouts so loud that every one hears him and there is a scandal.
Most of us like the idea that we could be desperately wicked if only we
let ourselves go. For this reason, the Freudian "unconscious" has been a
consolation to many quiet and well-behaved persons.


I do not think the truth is quite so picturesque as this. I believe an
"unconscious" desire is merely a causal law of our behaviour,* namely,
that we remain restlessly active until a certain state of affairs is
realized, when we achieve temporary equilibrium If we know beforehand
what this state of affairs is, our desire is conscious; if not,
unconscious. The unconscious desire is not something actually existing,
but merely a tendency to a certain behaviour; it has exactly the same
status as a force in dynamics. The unconscious desire is in no way
mysterious; it is the natural primitive form of desire, from which the
other has developed through our habit of observing and theorizing (often
wrongly). 
"""
,
"""
It is not necessary to suppose, as Freud seems to do,
that every unconscious wish was once conscious, and was then, in his
terminology, "repressed" because we disapproved of it. On the contrary,
we shall suppose that, although Freudian "repression" undoubtedly occurs
and is important, it is not the usual reason for unconsciousness of our
wishes. The usual reason is merely that wishes are all, to begin with,
unconscious, and only become known when they are actively noticed.
Usually, from laziness, people do not notice, but accept the theory
of human nature which they find current, and attribute to themselves
whatever wishes this theory would lead them to expect. We used to be
full of virtuous wishes, but since Freud our wishes have become, in
the words of the Prophet Jeremiah, "deceitful above all things and
desperately wicked." Both these views, in most of those who have held
them, are the product of theory rather than observation, for observation
requires effort, whereas repeating phrases does not.


The interpretation of unconscious wishes which I have been advocating
has been set forth briefly by Professor John B. Watson in an article
called "The Psychology of Wish Fulfilment," which appeared in "The
Scientific Monthly" in November, 1916. Two quotations will serve to show
his point of view:


"The Freudians (he says) have made more or less of a 'metaphysical
entity' out of the censor. They suppose that when wishes are repressed
they are repressed into the 'unconscious,' and that this mysterious
censor stands at the trapdoor lying between the conscious and the
unconscious. Many of us do not believe in a world of the unconscious
(a few of us even have grave doubts about the usefulness of the term
consciousness), hence we try to explain censorship along ordinary
biological lines. 
"""
,
"""
We believe that one group of habits can 'down' another
group of habits--or instincts. In this case our ordinary system of
habits--those which we call expressive of our 'real selves'--inhibit
or quench (keep inactive or partially inactive) those habits and
instinctive tendencies which belong largely in the past"(p. 483).


Again, after speaking of the frustration of some impulses which is
involved in acquiring the habits of a civilized adult, he continues:


"It is among these frustrated impulses that I would find the biological
basis of the unfulfilled wish. Such 'wishes' need never have been
'conscious,' and NEED NEVER HAVE BEEN SUPPRESSED INTO FREUD'S REALM
OF THE UNCONSCIOUS. It may be inferred from this that there is no
particular reason for applying the term 'wish' to such tendencies"(p.
485).


One of the merits of the general analysis of mind which we shall
be concerned with in the following lectures is that it removes the
atmosphere of mystery from the phenomena brought to light by the
psycho-analysts. Mystery is delightful, but unscientific, since it
depends upon ignorance. Man has developed out of the animals, and
there is no serious gap between him and the amoeba. Something closely
analogous to knowledge and desire, as regards its effects on behaviour,
exists among animals, even where what we call "consciousness" is hard
to believe in; something equally analogous exists in ourselves in cases
where no trace of "consciousness" can be found. It is therefore
natural to suppose that, what ever may be the correct definition of
"consciousness," "consciousness" is not the essence of life or mind. In
the following lectures, accordingly, this term will disappear until we
have dealt with words, when it will re-emerge as mainly a trivial and
unimportant outcome of linguistic habits.
"""
,
"""
3 May. Bistritz.--Left Munich at 8:35 P.M., on 1st May, arriving at
Vienna early next morning; should have arrived at 6:46, but train was
an hour late.  Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse
which I got of it from the train and the little I could walk through
the streets.  I feared to go very far from the station, as we had
arrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible.


The impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering the
East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, which is
here of noble width and depth, took us among the traditions of Turkish
rule.


We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh.
Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale.  I had for dinner,
or rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which
was very good but thirsty.  (Mem. get recipe for Mina.) I asked the
waiter, and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was
a national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along the
Carpathians.


I found my smattering of German very useful here, indeed, I don't know
how I should be able to get on without it.


Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I had visited the
British Museum, and made search among the books and maps in the
library regarding Transylvania; it had struck me that some
foreknowledge of the country could hardly fail to have some importance
in dealing with a nobleman of that country.




I find that the district he named is in the extreme east of the
country, just on the borders of three states, Transylvania, Moldavia,
and Bukovina, in the midst of the Carpathian mountains; one of the
wildest and least known portions of Europe.
"""
,
"""
I was not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality
of the Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet to
compare with our own Ordnance Survey Maps; but I found that Bistritz,
the post town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place.  I
shall enter here some of my notes, as they may refresh my memory when
I talk over my travels with Mina.


In the population of Transylvania there are four distinct
nationalities:  Saxons in the South, and mixed with them the Wallachs,
who are the descendants of the Dacians; Magyars in the West, and
Szekelys in the East and North.  I am going among the latter, who
claim to be descended from Attila and the Huns.  This may be so, for
when the Magyars conquered the country in the eleventh century they
found the Huns settled in it.


I read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into the
horseshoe of the Carpathians, as if it were the centre of some sort of
imaginative whirlpool; if so my stay may be very interesting.  (Mem.,
I must ask the Count all about them.)


I did not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable enough, for I had
all sorts of queer dreams.  There was a dog howling all night under my
window, which may have had something to do with it; or it may have
been the paprika, for I had to drink up all the water in my carafe,
and was still thirsty.  Towards morning I slept and was wakened by the
continuous knocking at my door, so I guess I must have been sleeping
soundly then.


I had for breakfast more paprika, and a sort of porridge of maize
flour which they said was "mamaliga", and egg-plant stuffed with
forcemeat, a very excellent dish, which they call "impletata". (Mem.,
get recipe for this also.)
"""
,
"""
I had to hurry breakfast, for the train started a little before eight,
or rather it ought to have done so, for after rushing to the station
at 7:30 I had to sit in the carriage for more than an hour before we
began to move.


It seems to me that the further east you go the more unpunctual are
the trains.  What ought they to be in China?


All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country which was full of
beauty of every kind.  Sometimes we saw little towns or castles on the
top of steep hills such as we see in old missals; sometimes we ran by
rivers and streams which seemed from the wide stony margin on each
side of them to be subject to great floods.  It takes a lot of water,
and running strong, to sweep the outside edge of a river clear.


At every station there were groups of people, sometimes crowds, and in
all sorts of attire.  Some of them were just like the peasants at home
or those I saw coming through France and Germany, with short jackets,
and round hats, and home-made trousers; but others were very
picturesque.


The women looked pretty, except when you got near them, but they were
very clumsy about the waist.  They had all full white sleeves of some
kind or other, and most of them had big belts with a lot of strips of
something fluttering from them like the dresses in a ballet, but of
course there were petticoats under them.


The strangest figures we saw were the Slovaks, who were more barbarian
than the rest, with their big cow-boy hats, great baggy dirty-white
trousers, white linen shirts, and enormous heavy leather belts, nearly
a foot wide, all studded over with brass nails.  They wore high boots,
with their trousers tucked into them, and had long black hair and
heavy black moustaches.  They are very picturesque, but do not look
prepossessing.  On the stage they would be set down at once as some
old Oriental band of brigands.  They are, however, I am told, very
harmless and rather wanting in natural self-assertion.
"""
,
"""
It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz, which is
a very interesting old place.  Being practically on the frontier--for
the Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina--it has had a very stormy
existence, and it certainly shows marks of it.  Fifty years ago a
series of great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on five
separate occasions.  At the very beginning of the seventeenth century
it underwent a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people, the
casualties of war proper being assisted by famine and disease.


Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel, which I
found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of
course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country.


I was evidently expected, for when I got near the door I faced a
cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress--white
undergarment with a long double apron, front, and back, of coloured
stuff fitting almost too tight for modesty.  When I came close she
bowed and said, "The Herr Englishman?"


"Yes," I said, "Jonathan Harker."


She smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in white
shirtsleeves, who had followed her to the door.


He went, but immediately returned with a letter:


"My friend.--Welcome to the Carpathians.  I am anxiously expecting
you.  Sleep well tonight.  At three tomorrow the diligence will
start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for you.  At the Borgo
Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me.  I trust
that your journey from London has been a happy one, and that you
will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land.--Your friend, Dracula."
"""
,
"""
4 May--I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count,
directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me; but on
making inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent, and
pretended that he could not understand my German.


This could not be true, because up to then he had understood it
perfectly; at least, he answered my questions exactly as if he did.


He and his wife, the old lady who had received me, looked at each
other in a frightened sort of way.  He mumbled out that the money had
been sent in a letter, and that was all he knew.  When I asked him if
he knew Count Dracula, and could tell me anything of his castle, both
he and his wife crossed themselves, and, saying that they knew nothing
at all, simply refused to speak further.  It was so near the time of
starting that I had no time to ask anyone else, for it was all very
mysterious and not by any means comforting.


Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my room and said in
a hysterical way:  "Must you go?  Oh!  Young Herr, must you go?"  She
was in such an excited state that she seemed to have lost her grip of
what German she knew, and mixed it all up with some other language
which I did not know at all.  I was just able to follow her by asking
many questions.  When I told her that I must go at once, and that I
was engaged on important business, she asked again:


"Do you know what day it is?"  I answered that it was the fourth of
May.  She shook her head as she said again:


"Oh, yes!  I know that!  I know that, but do you know what day it is?"
"""
,
"""
On my saying that I did not understand, she went on:


"It is the eve of St. George's Day.  Do you not know that tonight,
when the clock strikes midnight, all the evil things in the world will
have full sway?  Do you know where you are going, and what you are
going to?"  She was in such evident distress that I tried to comfort
her, but without effect.  Finally, she went down on her knees and
implored me not to go; at least to wait a day or two before starting.


It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable.  However,
there was business to be done, and I could allow nothing to interfere
with it.


I tried to raise her up, and said, as gravely as I could, that I
thanked her, but my duty was imperative, and that I must go.


She then rose and dried her eyes, and taking a crucifix from her neck
offered it to me.


I did not know what to do, for, as an English Churchman, I have been
taught to regard such things as in some measure idolatrous, and yet it
seemed so ungracious to refuse an old lady meaning so well and in such
a state of mind.


She saw, I suppose, the doubt in my face, for she put the rosary round
my neck and said, "For your mother's sake," and went out of the room.


I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting for the
coach, which is, of course, late; and the crucifix is still round my
neck.


Whether it is the old lady's fear, or the many ghostly traditions of
this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know, but I am not
feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual.
"""
,
"""
If this book should ever reach Mina before I do, let it bring my
goodbye.  Here comes the coach!




5 May.  The Castle.--The gray of the morning has passed, and the sun
is high over the distant horizon, which seems jagged, whether with
trees or hills I know not, for it is so far off that big things and
little are mixed.


I am not sleepy, and, as I am not to be called till I awake, naturally
I write till sleep comes.


There are many odd things to put down, and, lest who reads them may
fancy that I dined too well before I left Bistritz, let me put down my
dinner exactly.


I dined on what they called "robber steak"--bits of bacon, onion, and
beef, seasoned with red pepper, and strung on sticks, and roasted over
the fire, in simple style of the London cat's meat!


The wine was Golden Mediasch, which produces a queer sting on the
tongue, which is, however, not disagreeable.


I had only a couple of glasses of this, and nothing else.


When I got on the coach, the driver had not taken his seat, and I saw
him talking to the landlady.


They were evidently talking of me, for every now and then they looked
at me, and some of the people who were sitting on the bench outside
the door--came and listened, and then looked at me, most of them
pityingly.  I could hear a lot of words often repeated, queer words,
for there were many nationalities in the crowd, so I quietly got my
polyglot dictionary from my bag and looked them out.


I must say they were not cheering to me, for amongst them were
"Ordog"--Satan, "Pokol"--hell, "stregoica"--witch, "vrolok" and
"vlkoslak"--both mean the same thing, one being Slovak and the other
Servian for something that is either werewolf or vampire.  (Mem., I
must ask the Count about these superstitions.)
"""
,
"""
When we started, the crowd round the inn door, which had by this time
swelled to a considerable size, all made the sign of the cross and
pointed two fingers towards me.


With some difficulty, I got a fellow passenger to tell me what they
meant.  He would not answer at first, but on learning that I was
English, he explained that it was a charm or guard against the evil
eye.


This was not very pleasant for me, just starting for an unknown place
to meet an unknown man.  But everyone seemed so kind-hearted, and so
sorrowful, and so sympathetic that I could not but be touched.


I shall never forget the last glimpse which I had of the inn yard and
its crowd of picturesque figures, all crossing themselves, as they
stood round the wide archway, with its background of rich foliage of
oleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the centre of the
yard.


Then our driver, whose wide linen drawers covered the whole front of
the boxseat,--"gotza" they call them--cracked his big whip over his
four small horses, which ran abreast, and we set off on our journey.


I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty of
the scene as we drove along, although had I known the language, or
rather languages, which my fellow-passengers were speaking, I might
not have been able to throw them off so easily.  Before us lay a green
sloping land full of forests and woods, with here and there steep
hills, crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses, the blank
gable end to the road.  There was everywhere a bewildering mass of
fruit blossom--apple, plum, pear, cherry.  And as we drove by I could
see the green grass under the trees spangled with the fallen petals.
In and out amongst these green hills of what they call here the
"Mittel Land" ran the road, losing itself as it swept round the grassy
curve, or was shut out by the straggling ends of pine woods, which
here and there ran down the hillsides like tongues of flame.  
"""
,
"""
The road was rugged, but still we seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste.
I could not understand then what the haste meant, but the driver was
evidently bent on losing no time in reaching Borgo Prund.  I was told
that this road is in summertime excellent, but that it had not yet
been put in order after the winter snows.  In this respect it is
different from the general run of roads in the Carpathians, for it is
an old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good order.  Of
old the Hospadars would not repair them, lest the Turk should think
that they were preparing to bring in foreign troops, and so hasten the
war which was always really at loading point.


Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes
of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves.  Right
and left of us they towered, with the afternoon sun falling full upon
them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful
range, deep blue and purple in the shadows of the peaks, green and
brown where grass and rock mingled, and an endless perspective of
jagged rock and pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in the
distance, where the snowy peaks rose grandly.  Here and there seemed
mighty rifts in the mountains, through which, as the sun began to
sink, we saw now and again the white gleam of falling water.  One of
my companions touched my arm as we swept round the base of a hill and
opened up the lofty, snow-covered peak of a mountain, which seemed, as
we wound on our serpentine way, to be right before us.


"Look!  Isten szek!"--"God's seat!"--and he crossed himself reverently.
"""
,
"""
As we wound on our endless way, and the sun sank lower and lower
behind us, the shadows of the evening began to creep round us.  This
was emphasized by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held the
sunset, and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink.  Here and
there we passed Cszeks and slovaks, all in picturesque attire, but I
noticed that goitre was painfully prevalent.  By the roadside were
many crosses, and as we swept by, my companions all crossed
themselves.  Here and there was a peasant man or woman kneeling before
a shrine, who did not even turn round as we approached, but seemed in
the self-surrender of devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for the
outer world.  There were many things new to me.  For instance,
hay-ricks in the trees, and here and there very beautiful masses of
weeping birch, their white stems shining like silver through the
delicate green of the leaves.


Now and again we passed a leiter-wagon--the ordinary peasants's
cart--with its long, snakelike vertebra, calculated to suit the
inequalities of the road.  On this were sure to be seated quite a
group of homecoming peasants, the Cszeks with their white, and the
Slovaks with their coloured sheepskins, the latter carrying
lance-fashion their long staves, with axe at end.  As the evening fell
it began to get very cold, and the growing twilight seemed to merge
into one dark mistiness the gloom of the trees, oak, beech, and pine,
though in the valleys which ran deep between the spurs of the hills,
as we ascended through the Pass, the dark firs stood out here and
there against the background of late-lying snow.  Sometimes, as the
road was cut through the pine woods that seemed in the darkness to be
closing down upon us, great masses of greyness which here and there
bestrewed the trees, produced a peculiarly weird and solemn effect,
which carried on the thoughts and grim fancies engendered earlier in
the evening, when the falling sunset threw into strange relief the
ghost-like clouds which amongst the Carpathians seem to wind
ceaselessly through the valleys.  
"""
,
"""
Sometimes the hills were so steep
that, despite our driver's haste, the horses could only go slowly.  I
wished to get down and walk up them, as we do at home, but the driver
would not hear of it.  "No, no," he said.  "You must not walk here.
The dogs are too fierce."  And then he added, with what he evidently
meant for grim pleasantry--for he looked round to catch the approving
smile of the rest--"And you may have enough of such matters before you
go to sleep."  The only stop he would make was a moment's pause to
light his lamps.


When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the
passengers, and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, as
though urging him to further speed.  He lashed the horses unmercifully
with his long whip, and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on
to further exertions.  Then through the darkness I could see a sort of
patch of grey light ahead of us, as though there were a cleft in the
hills.  The excitement of the passengers grew greater.  The crazy
coach rocked on its great leather springs, and swayed like a boat
tossed on a stormy sea.  I had to hold on.  The road grew more level,
and we appeared to fly along.  Then the mountains seemed to come
nearer to us on each side and to frown down upon us.  We were entering
on the Borgo Pass.  One by one several of the passengers offered me
gifts, which they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would take
no denial.  These were certainly of an odd and varied kind, but each
was given in simple good faith, with a kindly word, and a blessing,
and that same strange mixture of fear-meaning movements which I had
seen outside the hotel at Bistritz--the sign of the cross and the
guard against the evil eye. 
"""
,
"""
Then, as we flew along, the driver leaned 
forward, and on each side the passengers, craning over the edge of the
coach, peered eagerly into the darkness.  It was evident that
something very exciting was either happening or expected, but though I
asked each passenger, no one would give me the slightest explanation.
This state of excitement kept on for some little time.  And at last we
saw before us the Pass opening out on the eastern side.  There were
dark, rolling clouds overhead, and in the air the heavy, oppressive
sense of thunder.  It seemed as though the mountain range had
separated two atmospheres, and that now we had got into the thunderous
one.  I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was to
take me to the Count.  Each moment I expected to see the glare of
lamps through the blackness, but all was dark.  The only light was the
flickering rays of our own lamps, in which the steam from our
hard-driven horses rose in a white cloud.  We could see now the sandy
road lying white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle.
The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness, which seemed to mock
my own disappointment.  I was already thinking what I had best do,
when the driver, looking at his watch, said to the others something
which I could hardly hear, it was spoken so quietly and in so low a
tone, I thought it was "An hour less than the time."  Then turning to
me, he spoke in German worse than my own.


"There is no carriage here.  The Herr is not expected after all.  He
will now come on to Bukovina, and return tomorrow or the next day,
better the next day."  
"""
,
"""
Whilst he was speaking the horses began to
neigh and snort and plunge wildly, so that the driver had to hold them
up.  Then, amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a
universal crossing of themselves, a caleche, with four horses, drove
up behind us, overtook us, and drew up beside the coach.  I could see
from the flash of our lamps as the rays fell on them, that the horses
were coal-black and splendid animals.  They were driven by a tall man,
with a long brown beard and a great black hat, which seemed to hide
his face from us.  I could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright
eyes, which seemed red in the lamplight, as he turned to us.


He said to the driver, "You are early tonight, my friend."


The man stammered in reply, "The English Herr was in a hurry."


To which the stranger replied, "That is why, I suppose, you wished him
to go on to Bukovina.  You cannot deceive me, my friend.  I know too
much, and my horses are swift."


As he spoke he smiled, and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth,
with very red lips and sharp-looking teeth, as white as ivory.  One of
my companions whispered to another the line from Burger's "Lenore".


"Denn die Todten reiten Schnell."  ("For the dead travel fast.")


The strange driver evidently heard the words, for he looked up with a
gleaming smile.  The passenger turned his face away, at the same time
putting out his two fingers and crossing himself.  "Give me the Herr's
luggage," said the driver, and with exceeding alacrity my bags were
handed out and put in the caleche.  Then I descended from the side of
the coach, as the caleche was close alongside, the driver helping me
with a hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel.  His strength must
have been prodigious.
"""
,
"""
Without a word he shook his reins, the horses turned, and we swept
into the darkness of the pass.  As I looked back I saw the steam from
the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps, and projected
against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves.
Then the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses, and off
they swept on their way to Bukovina.  As they sank into the darkness I
felt a strange chill, and a lonely feeling come over me.  But a cloak
was thrown over my shoulders, and a rug across my knees, and the
driver said in excellent German--"The night is chill, mein Herr, and
my master the Count bade me take all care of you.  There is a flask of
slivovitz (the plum brandy of the country) underneath the seat, if you
should require it."


I did not take any, but it was a comfort to know it was there all the
same.  I felt a little strangely, and not a little frightened.  I
think had there been any alternative I should have taken it, instead
of prosecuting that unknown night journey.  The carriage went at a
hard pace straight along, then we made a complete turn and went along
another straight road.  It seemed to me that we were simply going over
and over the same ground again, and so I took note of some salient
point, and found that this was so.  I would have liked to have asked
the driver what this all meant, but I really feared to do so, for I
thought that, placed as I was, any protest would have had no effect in
case there had been an intention to delay.


By-and-by, however, as I was curious to know how time was passing, I
struck a match, and by its flame looked at my watch.  It was within a
few minutes of midnight.  This gave me a sort of shock, for I suppose
the general superstition about midnight was increased by my recent
experiences.  I waited with a sick feeling of suspense.
"""
,
"""
Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road, a
long, agonized wailing, as if from fear.  The sound was taken up by
another dog, and then another and another, till, borne on the wind
which now sighed softly through the Pass, a wild howling began, which
seemed to come from all over the country, as far as the imagination
could grasp it through the gloom of the night.


At the first howl the horses began to strain and rear, but the driver
spoke to them soothingly, and they quieted down, but shivered and
sweated as though after a runaway from sudden fright.  Then, far off
in the distance, from the mountains on each side of us began a louder
and a sharper howling, that of wolves, which affected both the horses
and myself in the same way.  For I was minded to jump from the caleche
and run, whilst they reared again and plunged madly, so that the
driver had to use all his great strength to keep them from bolting.
In a few minutes, however, my own ears got accustomed to the sound,
and the horses so far became quiet that the driver was able to descend
and to stand before them.


He petted and soothed them, and whispered something in their ears, as
I have heard of horse-tamers doing, and with extraordinary effect, for
under his caresses they became quite manageable again, though they
still trembled.  The driver again took his seat, and shaking his
reins, started off at a great pace.  This time, after going to the far
side of the Pass, he suddenly turned down a narrow roadway which ran
sharply to the right.


Soon we were hemmed in with trees, which in places arched right over
the roadway till we passed as through a tunnel.  And again great
frowning rocks guarded us boldly on either side.  
"""
,
"""
Though we were in shelter, we could hear the rising wind, for it moaned and whistled
through the rocks, and the branches of the trees crashed together as
we swept along.  It grew colder and colder still, and fine, powdery
snow began to fall, so that soon we and all around us were covered
with a white blanket.  The keen wind still carried the howling of the
dogs, though this grew fainter as we went on our way.  The baying of
the wolves sounded nearer and nearer, as though they were closing
round on us from every side.  I grew dreadfully afraid, and the horses
shared my fear.  The driver, however, was not in the least disturbed.
He kept turning his head to left and right, but I could not see
anything through the darkness.


Suddenly, away on our left I saw a faint flickering blue flame.  The
driver saw it at the same moment.  He at once checked the horses, and,
jumping to the ground, disappeared into the darkness.  I did not know
what to do, the less as the howling of the wolves grew closer.  But
while I wondered, the driver suddenly appeared again, and without a
word took his seat, and we resumed our journey.  I think I must have
fallen asleep and kept dreaming of the incident, for it seemed to be
repeated endlessly, and now looking back, it is like a sort of awful
nightmare.  Once the flame appeared so near the road, that even in the
darkness around us I could watch the driver's motions.  He went
rapidly to where the blue flame arose, it must have been very faint,
for it did not seem to illumine the place around it at all, and
gathering a few stones, formed them into some device.
"""
,
"""
Once there appeared a strange optical effect.  When he stood between
me and the flame he did not obstruct it, for I could see its ghostly
flicker all the same.  This startled me, but as the effect was only
momentary, I took it that my eyes deceived me straining through the
darkness.  Then for a time there were no blue flames, and we sped
onwards through the gloom, with the howling of the wolves around us,
as though they were following in a moving circle.


At last there came a time when the driver went further afield than he
had yet gone, and during his absence, the horses began to tremble
worse than ever and to snort and scream with fright.  I could not see
any cause for it, for the howling of the wolves had ceased altogether.
But just then the moon, sailing through the black clouds, appeared
behind the jagged crest of a beetling, pine-clad rock, and by its
light I saw around us a ring of wolves, with white teeth and lolling
red tongues, with long, sinewy limbs and shaggy hair.  They were a
hundred times more terrible in the grim silence which held them than
even when they howled.  For myself, I felt a sort of paralysis of
fear.  It is only when a man feels himself face to face with such
horrors that he can understand their true import.


All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had had
some peculiar effect on them.  The horses jumped about and reared, and
looked helplessly round with eyes that rolled in a way painful to
see.  But the living ring of terror encompassed them on every side,
and they had perforce to remain within it.  I called to the coachman
to come, for it seemed to me that our only chance was to try to break
out through the ring and to aid his approach, I shouted and beat the
side of the caleche, hoping by the noise to scare the wolves from the
side, so as to give him a chance of reaching the trap.  
"""
,
"""
How he came there, I know not, but I heard his voice raised in a tone of imperious
command, and looking towards the sound, saw him stand in the roadway.
As he swept his long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpable
obstacle, the wolves fell back and back further still.  Just then a
heavy cloud passed across the face of the moon, so that we were again
in darkness.


When I could see again the driver was climbing into the caleche, and
the wolves disappeared.  This was all so strange and uncanny that a
dreadful fear came upon me, and I was afraid to speak or move.  The
time seemed interminable as we swept on our way, now in almost
complete darkness, for the rolling clouds obscured the moon.


We kept on ascending, with occasional periods of quick descent, but in
the main always ascending.  Suddenly, I became conscious of the fact
that the driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in the
courtyard of a vast ruined castle, from whose tall black windows came
no ray of light, and whose broken battlements showed a jagged line
against the sky.


5 May.--I must have been asleep, for certainly if I had been fully
awake I must have noticed the approach of such a remarkable place.  In
the gloom the courtyard looked of considerable size, and as several
dark ways led from it under great round arches, it perhaps seemed
bigger than it really is.  I have not yet been able to see it by
daylight.


When the caleche stopped, the driver jumped down and held out his hand
to assist me to alight.  Again I could not but notice his prodigious
strength.  His hand actually seemed like a steel vice that could have
crushed mine if he had chosen.  Then he took my traps, and placed them
on the ground beside me as I stood close to a great door, old and
studded with large iron nails, and set in a projecting doorway of
massive stone.  
"""
,
"""
"It blows," said Joe Wingate.
As if to accent the words of the speaker a heavy gust of wind at that
moment shook the long light wooden structure which served as the general
store of Sidon settlement, in Contra Costa. Even after it had passed a
prolonged whistle came through the keyhole, sides, and openings of the
closed glass front doors, that served equally for windows, and filled
the canvas ceiling which hid the roof above like a bellying sail. A wave
of enthusiastic emotion seemed to be communicated to a line of straw
hats and sou-westers suspended from a cross-beam, and swung them with
every appearance of festive rejoicing, while a few dusters, overcoats,
and "hickory" shirts hanging on the side walls exhibited such marked
though idiotic animation that it had the effect of a satirical comment
on the lazy, purposeless figures of the four living inmates of the
store.
Ned Billings momentarily raised his head and shoulders depressed in the
back of his wooden armchair, glanced wearily around, said, "You bet,
it's no slouch of a storm," and then lapsed again with further extended
legs and an added sense of comfort.


Here the third figure, which had been leaning listlessly against the
shelves, putting aside the arm of a swaying overcoat that seemed to
be emptily embracing him, walked slowly from behind the counter to the
door, examined its fastenings, and gazed at the prospect. He was the
owner of the store, and the view was a familiar one,--a long stretch of
treeless waste before him meeting an equal stretch of dreary sky above,
and night hovering somewhere between the two. This was indicated by
splashes of darker shadow as if washed in with india ink, and a lighter
low-lying streak that might have been the horizon, but was not. To
the right, on a line with the front door of the store, were several
scattered, widely dispersed objects, that, although vague in outline,
were rigid enough in angles to suggest sheds or barns, but certainly not trees
"""
,
"""
"There's a heap more wet to come afore the wind goes down," he said,
glancing at the sky. "Hark to that, now!"


They listened lazily. There was a faint murmur from the shingles above;
then suddenly the whole window was filmed and blurred as if the
entire prospect had been wiped out with a damp sponge. The man turned
listlessly away.


"That's the kind that soaks in; thar won't be much teamin' over Tasajara
for the next two weeks, I reckon," said the fourth lounger, who,
seated on a high barrel, was nibbling--albeit critically and
fastidiously--biscuits and dried apples alternately from open boxes on
the counter. "It's lucky you've got in your winter stock, Harkutt."


The shrewd eyes of Mr. Harkutt, proprietor, glanced at the occupation of
the speaker as if even his foresight might have its possible drawbacks,
but he said nothing.


"There'll be no show for Sidon until you've got a wagon road from here
to the creek," said Billings languidly, from the depths of his chair.
"But what's the use o' talkin'? Thar ain't energy enough in all Tasajara
to build it. A God-forsaken place, that two months of the year can only
be reached by a mail-rider once a week, don't look ez if it was goin' to
break its back haulin' in goods and settlers. I tell ye what, gentlemen,
it makes me sick!" And apparently it had enfeebled him to the extent of
interfering with his aim in that expectoration of disgust against the
stove with which he concluded his sentence.


"Why don't YOU build it?" asked Wingate, carelessly.


"I wouldn't on principle," said Billings. "It's gov'ment work. What did
we whoop up things here last spring to elect Kennedy to the legislation
for? What did I rig up my shed and a thousand feet of lumber for benches
at the barbecue for? Why, to get Kennedy elected and make him get a
bill passed for the road! That's MY share of building it, if it comes to
that. And I only wish some folks, that blow enough about what oughter be
done to bulge out that ceiling, would only do as much as I have done for
Sidon."
"""
,
"""
As this remark seemed to have a personal as well as local application,
the storekeeper diplomatically turned it. "There's a good many as DON'T
believe that a road from here to the creek is going to do any good to
Sidon. It's very well to say the creek is an embarcadero, but callin' it
so don't put anough water into it to float a steamboat from the bay, nor
clear out the reeds and tules in it. Even if the State builds you roads,
it ain't got no call to make Tasajara Creek navigable for ye; and as
that will cost as much as the road, I don't see where the money's comin'
from for both."


"There's water enough in front of 'Lige Curtis's shanty, and his
location is only a mile along the bank," returned Billings.


"Water enough for him to laze away his time fishin' when he's sober, and
deep enough to drown him when he's drunk," said Wingate. "If you
call that an embarcadero, you kin buy it any day from 'Lige,--title,
possession, and shanty thrown in,--for a demijohn o' whiskey."


The fourth man here distastefully threw back a half-nibbled biscuit
into the box, and languidly slipped from the barrel to the floor,
fastidiously flicking the crumbs from his clothes as he did so. "I
reckon somebody'll get it for nothing, if 'Lige don't pull up mighty
soon. He'll either go off his head with jim-jams or jump into the creek.
He's about as near desp'rit as they make 'em, and havin' no partner to
look after him, and him alone in the tules, ther' 's no tellin' WHAT he
may do."
"""
,
"""
Billings, stretched at full length in his chair, here gurgled
derisively. "Desp'rit!--ketch him! Why, that's his little game! He's
jist playin' off his desp'rit condition to frighten Sidon. Whenever any
one asks him why he don't go to work, whenever he's hard up for a drink,
whenever he's had too much or too little, he's workin' that desp'rit
dodge, and even talkin' o' killin' himself! Why, look here," he
continued, momentarily raising himself to a sitting posture in his
disgust, "it was only last week he was over at Rawlett's trying to
raise provisions and whiskey outer his water rights on the creek! Fact,
sir,--had it all written down lawyer-like on paper. Rawlett didn't
exactly see it in that light, and told him so. Then he up with the
desp'rit dodge and began to work that. Said if he had to starve in a
swamp like a dog he might as well kill himself at once, and would too
if he could afford the weppins. Johnson said it was not a bad idea, and
offered to lend him his revolver; Bilson handed up his shot-gun, and
left it alongside of him, and turned his head away considerate-like and
thoughtful while Rawlett handed him a box of rat pizon over the counter,
in case he preferred suthin' more quiet. Well, what did 'Lige do?
Nothin'! Smiled kinder sickly, looked sorter wild, and shut up. He
didn't suicide much. No, sir! He didn't kill himself,--not he. Why, old
Bixby--and he's a deacon in good standin'--allowed, in 'Lige's hearin'
and for 'Lige's benefit, that self-destruction was better nor bad
example, and proved it by Scripture too. And yet 'Lige did nothin'!
Desp'rit! He's only desp'rit to laze around and fish all day off a log
in the tules, and soak up with whiskey, until, betwixt fever an' ague
and the jumps, he kinder shakes hisself free o' responsibility."
"""
,
"""
A long silence followed; it was somehow felt that the subject was
incongruously exciting; Billings allowed himself to lapse again behind
the back of his chair. Meantime it had grown so dark that the dull glow
of the stove was beginning to outline a faint halo on the ceiling even
while it plunged the further lines of shelves behind the counter into
greater obscurity.


"Time to light up, Harkutt, ain't it?" said Wingate, tentatively.


"Well, I was reckoning ez it's such a wild night there wouldn't be any
use keepin' open, and when you fellows left I'd just shut up for good
and make things fast," said Harkutt, dubiously. Before his guests had
time to fully weigh this delicate hint, another gust of wind shook the
tenement, and even forced the unbolted upper part of the door to yield
far enough to admit an eager current of humid air that seemed to justify
the wisdom of Harkutt's suggestion. Billings slowly and with a sigh
assumed a sitting posture in the chair. The biscuit-nibbler selected a
fresh dainty from the counter, and Wingate abstractedly walked to the
window and rubbed the glass. Sky and water had already disappeared
behind a curtain of darkness that was illuminated by a single point of
light--the lamp in the window of some invisible but nearer house--which
threw its rays across the glistening shallows in the road. "Well," said
Wingate, buttoning up his coat in slow dejection, "I reckon I oughter
be travelin' to help the old woman do the chores before supper." He had
just recognized the light in his own dining-room, and knew by that sign
that his long-waiting helpmeet had finally done the chores herself.


"Some folks have it mighty easy," said Billings, with long-drawn
discontent, as he struggled to his feet. "You've only a step to go,
and yer's me and Peters there"--indicating the biscuit-nibbler, who was
beginning to show alarming signs of returning to the barrel again--"hev
got to trapse five times that distance."
"""
,
"""
"More'n half a mile, if it comes to that," said Peters, gloomily. He
paused in putting on his overcoat as if thinking better of it, while
even the more fortunate and contiguous Wingate languidly lapsed against
the counter again.


The moment was a critical one. Billings was evidently also regretfully
eying the chair he had just quitted. Harkutt resolved on a heroic
effort.


"Come, boys," he said, with brisk conviviality, "take a parting drink
with me before you go." Producing a black bottle from some obscurity
beneath the counter that smelt strongly of india-rubber boots, he placed
it with four glasses before his guests. Each made a feint of holding his
glass against the opaque window while filling it, although nothing could
be seen. A sudden tumult of wind and rain again shook the building, but
even after it had passed the glass door still rattled violently.


"Just see what's loose, Peters," said Billings; "you're nearest it."


Peters, still holding the undrained glass in his hand, walked slowly
towards it.


"It's suthin'--or somebody outside," he said, hesitatingly.


The three others came eagerly to his side. Through the glass, clouded
from within by their breath, and filmed from without by the rain, some
vague object was moving, and what seemed to be a mop of tangled hair
was apparently brushing against the pane. The door shook again, but less
strongly. Billings pressed his face against the glass. "Hol' on," he
said in a quick whisper,--"it's 'Lige!" But it was too late. Harkutt
had already drawn the lower bolt, and a man stumbled from the outer
obscurity into the darker room.


The inmates drew away as he leaned back for a moment against the door
that closed behind him. Then dimly, but instinctively, discerning the
glass of liquor which Wingate still mechanically held in his hand,
he reached forward eagerly, took it from Wingate's surprised and
unresisting fingers, and drained it at a gulp. The four men laughed
vaguely, but not as cheerfully as they might.
"""
,
"""
"I was just shutting up," began Harkutt, dubiously.


"I won't keep you a minit," said the intruder, nervously fumbling in
the breast pocket of his hickory shirt. "It's a matter of
business--Harkutt--I"--But he was obliged to stop here to wipe his
face and forehead with the ends of a loose handkerchief tied round his
throat. From the action, and what could be seen of his pale,
exhausted face, it was evident that the moisture upon it was beads of
perspiration, and not the rain which some abnormal heat of his body was
converting into vapor from his sodden garments as he stood there.


"I've got a document here," he began again, producing a roll of paper
tremblingly from his pocket, "that I'd like you to glance over, and
perhaps you'd"--His voice, which had been feverishly exalted, here broke
and rattled with a cough.


Billings, Wingate, and Peters fell apart and looked out of the window.
"It's too dark to read anything now, 'Lige," said Harkutt, with evasive
good humor, "and I ain't lightin' up to-night."


"But I can tell you the substance of it," said the man, with a faintness
that however had all the distinctness of a whisper, "if you'll just step
inside a minute. It's a matter of importance and a bargain"--


"I reckon we must be goin'," said Billings to the others, with marked
emphasis. "We're keepin' Harkutt from shuttin' up." "Good-night!"
"Good-night!" added Peters and Wingate, ostentatiously following
Billings hurriedly through the door. "So long!"


The door closed behind them, leaving Harkutt alone with his importunate
intruder. Possibly his resentment at his customers' selfish abandonment
of him at this moment developed a vague spirit of opposition to them and
mitigated his feeling towards 'Lige. He groped his way to the counter,
struck a match, and lit a candle. 
"""
,
"""
Its feeble rays faintly illuminated
the pale, drawn face of the applicant, set in a tangle of wet, unkempt,
party-colored hair. It was not the face of an ordinary drunkard;
although tremulous and sensitive from some artificial excitement, there
was no ENGORGEMENT or congestion in the features or complexion, albeit
they were morbid and unhealthy. The expression was of a suffering that
was as much mental as physical, and yet in some vague way appeared
unmeaning--and unheroic.


"I want to see you about selling my place on the creek. I want you to
take it off my hands for a bargain. I want to get quit of it, at once,
for just enough to take me out o' this. I don't want any profit; only
money enough to get away." His utterance, which had a certain kind of
cultivation, here grew thick and harsh again, and he looked eagerly at
the bottle which stood on the counter.


"Look here, 'Lige," said Harkutt, not unkindly. "It's too late to do
anythin' tonight. You come in to-morrow." He would have added "when
you're sober," but for a trader's sense of politeness to a possible
customer, and probably some doubt of the man's actual condition.


"God knows where or what I may be tomorrow! It would kill me to go back
and spend another night as the last, if I don't kill myself on the way
to do it."


Harkutt's face darkened grimly. It was indeed as Billings had said.
The pitiable weakness of the man's manner not only made his desperation
inadequate and ineffective, but even lent it all the cheapness of
acting. And, as if to accent his simulation of a part, his fingers,
feebly groping in his shirt bosom, slipped aimlessly and helplessly
from the shining handle of a pistol in his pocket to wander hesitatingly
towards the bottle on the counter.
"""
,
"""
Harkutt took the bottle, poured out a glass of the liquor, and pushed
it before his companion, who drank it eagerly. Whether it gave him more
confidence, or his attention was no longer diverted, he went on
more collectedly and cheerfully, and with no trace of his previous
desperation in his manner. "Come, Harkutt, buy my place. It's a bargain,
I tell you. I'll sell it cheap. I only want enough to get away with.
Give me twenty-five dollars and it's yours. See, there's the papers--the
quitclaim--all drawn up and signed." He drew the roll of paper from his
pocket again, apparently forgetful of the adjacent weapon.


"Look here, 'Lige," said Harkutt, with a business-like straightening of
his lips, "I ain't buyin' any land in Tasajara,--least of all yours on
the creek. I've got more invested here already than I'll ever get back
again. But I tell you what I'll do. You say you can't go back to your
shanty. Well, seein' how rough it is outside, and that the waters of
the creek are probably all over the trail by this time, I reckon you're
about right. Now, there's five dollars!" He laid down a coin sharply on
the counter. "Take that and go over to Rawlett's and get a bed and
some supper. In the mornin' you may be able to strike up a trade with
somebody else--or change your mind. How did you get here? On your hoss?"


"Yes."


"He ain't starved yet?"


"No; he can eat grass. I can't."


Either the liquor or Harkutt's practical unsentimental treatment of
the situation seemed to give him confidence. He met Harkutt's eye more
steadily as the latter went on. "You kin turn your hoss for the night
into my stock corral next to Rawlett's. It'll save you payin' for fodder
and stablin'."
"""
,
"""
The man took up the coin with a certain slow gravity which was almost
like dignity. "Thank you," he said, laying the paper on the counter.
"I'll leave that as security."


"Don't want it, 'Lige," said Harkutt, pushing it back.


"I'd rather leave it."


"But suppose you have a chance to sell it to somebody at Rawlett's?"
continued Harkutt, with a precaution that seemed ironical.


"I don't think there's much chance of that."


He remained quiet, looking at Harkutt with an odd expression as
he rubbed the edge of the coin that he held between his fingers
abstractedly on the counter. Something in his gaze--rather perhaps
the apparent absence of anything in it approximate to the present
occasion--was beginning to affect Harkutt with a vague uneasiness.
Providentially a resumed onslaught of wind and rain against the panes
effected a diversion. "Come," he said, with brisk practicality, "you'd
better hurry on to Rawlett's before it gets worse. Have your clothes
dried by his fire, take suthin' to eat, and you'll be all right." He
rubbed his hands cheerfully, as if summarily disposing of the situation,
and incidentally of all 'Lige's troubles, and walked with him to the
door. Nevertheless, as the man's look remained unchanged, he hesitated
a moment with his hand on the handle, in the hope that he would say
something, even if only to repeat his appeal, but he did not. Then
Harkutt opened the door; the man moved mechanically out, and at the
distance of a few feet seemed to melt into the rain and darkness.
Harkutt remained for a moment with his face pressed against the glass.
After an interval he thought he heard the faint splash of hoofs in the
shallows of the road; he opened the door softly and looked out.
"""
,
"""
The light had disappeared from the nearest house; only an uncertain bulk
of shapeless shadows remained. Other remoter and more vague outlines
near the horizon seemed to have a funereal suggestion of tombs and grave
mounds, and one--a low shed near the road--looked not unlike a halted
bier. He hurriedly put up the shutters in a momentary lulling of the
wind, and re-entering the store began to fasten them from within.


While thus engaged an inner door behind the counter opened softly and
cautiously, projecting a brighter light into the deserted apartment from
some sacred domestic interior with the warm and wholesome incense of
cooking. It served to introduce also the equally agreeable presence of a
young girl, who, after assuring herself of the absence of every one but
the proprietor, idly slipped into the store, and placing her rounded
elbows, from which her sleeves were uprolled, upon the counter, leaned
lazily upon them, with both hands supporting her dimpled chin, and gazed
indolently at him; so indolently that, with her pretty face once
fixed in this comfortable attitude, she was constrained to follow his
movements with her eyes alone, and often at an uncomfortable angle. It
was evident that she offered the final but charming illustration of the
enfeebling listlessness of Sidon.


"So those loafers have gone at last," she said, meditatively. "They'll
take root here some day, pop. The idea of three strong men like that
lazing round for two mortal hours doin' nothin'. Well!" As if to
emphasize her disgust she threw her whole weight upon the counter by
swinging her feet from the floor to touch the shelves behind her.


Mr. Harkutt only replied by a slight grunt as he continued to screw on
the shutters.


"Want me to help you, dad?" she said, without moving.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Harkutt muttered something unintelligible, which, however, seemed to
imply a negative, and her attention here feebly wandered to the roll of
paper, and she began slowly and lazily to read it aloud.


"'For value received, I hereby sell, assign, and transfer to Daniel D.
Harkutt all my right, titles and interest in, and to the undivided
half of, Quarter Section 4, Range 5, Tasajara Township'--hum--hum," she
murmured, running her eyes to the bottom of the page. "Why, Lord! It's
that 'Lige Curtis!" she laughed. "The idea of HIM having property! Why,
dad, you ain't been THAT silly!"


"Put down that paper, miss," he said, aggrievedly; "bring the candle
here, and help me to find one of these infernal screws that's dropped."


The girl indolently disengaged herself from the counter and Elijah
Curtis's transfer, and brought the candle to her father. The screw was
presently found and the last fastening secured. "Supper gettin' cold,
dad," she said, with a slight yawn. Her father sympathetically responded
by stretching himself from his stooping position, and the two passed
through the private door into inner domesticity, leaving the already
forgotten paper lying with other articles of barter on the counter.


With the closing of the little door behind them they seemed to have shut
out the turmoil and vibration of the storm. The reason became apparent
when, after a few paces, they descended half a dozen steps to a lower
landing. This disclosed the fact that the dwelling part of the Sidon
General Store was quite below the level of the shop and the road, and
on the slope of the solitary undulation of the Tasajara plain,--a little
ravine that fell away to a brawling stream below. The only arboreous
growth of Tasajara clothed its banks in the shape of willows and alders
that set compactly around the quaint, irregular dwelling which straggled
down the ravine and looked upon a slope of bracken and foliage on either
side. The transition from the black, treeless, storm-swept plain to this
sheltered declivity was striking and suggestive. 
"""
,
"""
After having been twice driven back by heavy south-western gales,
Her Majesty's ship "Beagle," a ten-gun brig, under the command of
Captain Fitz Roy, R.N., sailed from Devonport on the 27th of
December, 1831. The object of the expedition was to complete the
survey of Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, commenced under Captain
King in 1826 to 1830--to survey the shores of Chile, Peru, and of
some islands in the Pacific--and to carry a chain of chronometrical
measurements round the World. On the 6th of January we reached
Teneriffe, but were prevented landing, by fears of our bringing the
cholera: the next morning we saw the sun rise behind the rugged
outline of the Grand Canary Island, and suddenly illumine the Peak
of Teneriffe, whilst the lower parts were veiled in fleecy clouds.
This was the first of many delightful days never to be forgotten.
On the 16th of January 1832 we anchored at Porto Praya, in St.
Jago, the chief island of the Cape de Verd archipelago.


The neighbourhood of Porto Praya, viewed from the sea, wears a
desolate aspect. The volcanic fires of a past age, and the
scorching heat of a tropical sun, have in most places rendered the
soil unfit for vegetation. The country rises in successive steps of
table-land, interspersed with some truncate conical hills, and the
horizon is bounded by an irregular chain of more lofty mountains.
The scene, as beheld through the hazy atmosphere of this climate,
is one of great interest; if, indeed, a person, fresh from sea, and
who has just walked, for the first time, in a grove of cocoa-nut
trees, can be a judge of anything but his own happiness. The island
would generally be considered as very uninteresting, but to any one
accustomed only to an English landscape, the novel aspect of an
utterly sterile land possesses a grandeur which more vegetation
might spoil. 
"""
,
"""
A single green leaf can scarcely be discovered over
wide tracts of the lava plains; yet flocks of goats, together with
a few cows, contrive to exist. It rains very seldom, but during a
short portion of the year heavy torrents fall, and immediately
afterwards a light vegetation springs out of every crevice. This
soon withers; and upon such naturally formed hay the animals live.
It had not now rained for an entire year. When the island was
discovered, the immediate neighbourhood of Porto Praya was clothed
with trees (1/1. I state this on the authority of Dr. E.
Dieffenbach, in his German translation of the first edition of this
Journal.), the reckless destruction of which has caused here, as at
St. Helena, and at some of the Canary islands, almost entire
sterility. The broad, flat-bottomed valleys, many of which serve
during a few days only in the season as watercourses, are clothed
with thickets of leafless bushes. Few living creatures inhabit
these valleys. The commonest bird is a kingfisher (Dacelo
Iagoensis), which tamely sits on the branches of the castor-oil
plant, and thence darts on grasshoppers and lizards. It is brightly
coloured, but not so beautiful as the European species: in its
flight, manners, and place of habitation, which is generally in the
driest valley, there is also a wide difference.


One day, two of the officers and myself rode to Ribeira Grande, a
village a few miles eastward of Porto Praya. Until we reached the
valley of St. Martin, the country presented its usual dull brown
appearance; but here, a very small rill of water produces a most
refreshing margin of luxuriant vegetation. In the course of an hour
we arrived at Ribeira Grande, and were surprised at the sight of a
large ruined fort and cathedral. This little town, before its
harbour was filled up, was the principal place in the island: it
now presents a melancholy, but very picturesque appearance. Having
procured a black Padre for a guide, and a Spaniard who had served
in the Peninsular war as an interpreter, we visited a collection of
buildings, of which an ancient church formed the principal part. 
"""
,
"""
It is here the governors and captain-generals of the islands have been
buried. Some of the tombstones recorded dates of the sixteenth
century. (1/2. The Cape de Verd Islands were discovered in 1449.
There was a tombstone of a bishop with the date of 1571; and a
crest of a hand and dagger, dated 1497.) The heraldic ornaments
were the only things in this retired place that reminded us of
Europe. The church or chapel formed one side of a quadrangle, in
the middle of which a large clump of bananas were growing. On
another side was a hospital, containing about a dozen
miserable-looking inmates.


We returned to the Vênda to eat our dinners. A considerable number
of men, women, and children, all as black as jet, collected to
watch us. Our companions were extremely merry; and everything we
said or did was followed by their hearty laughter. Before leaving
the town we visited the cathedral. It does not appear so rich as
the smaller church, but boasts of a little organ, which sent forth
singularly inharmonious cries. We presented the black priest with a
few shillings, and the Spaniard, patting him on the head, said,
with much candour, he thought his colour made no great difference.
We then returned, as fast as the ponies would go, to Porto Praya.


Another day we rode to the village of St. Domingo, situated near
the centre of the island. On a small plain which we crossed, a few
stunted acacias were growing; their tops had been bent by the
steady trade-wind, in a singular manner--some of them even at right
angles to their trunks. The direction of the branches was exactly
north-east by north, and south-west by south, and these natural
vanes must indicate the prevailing direction of the force of the
trade-wind. 
"""
,
"""
The travelling had made so little impression on the
barren soil, that we here missed our track, and took that to
Fuentes. This we did not find out till we arrived there; and we
were afterwards glad of our mistake. Fuentes is a pretty village,
with a small stream; and everything appeared to prosper well,
excepting, indeed, that which ought to do so most--its inhabitants.
The black children, completely naked, and looking very wretched,
were carrying bundles of firewood half as big as their own bodies.


Near Fuentes we saw a large flock of guinea-fowl--probably fifty or
sixty in number. They were extremely wary, and could not be
approached. They avoided us, like partridges on a rainy day in
September, running with their heads cocked up; and if pursued, they
readily took to the wing.


The scenery of St. Domingo possesses a beauty totally unexpected,
from the prevalent gloomy character of the rest of the island. The
village is situated at the bottom of a valley, bounded by lofty and
jagged walls of stratified lava. The black rocks afford a most
striking contrast with the bright green vegetation, which follows
the banks of a little stream of clear water. It happened to be a
grand feast-day, and the village was full of people. On our return
we overtook a party of about twenty young black girls, dressed in
excellent taste; their black skins and snow-white linen being set
off by coloured turbans and large shawls. As soon as we approached
near, they suddenly all turned round, and covering the path with
their shawls, sung with great energy a wild song, beating time with
their hands upon their legs. We threw them some vintéms, which were
received with screams of laughter, and we left them redoubling the
noise of their song.
"""
,
"""
One morning the view was singularly clear; the distant mountains
being projected with the sharpest outline, on a heavy bank of dark
blue clouds. Judging from the appearance, and from similar cases in
England, I supposed that the air was saturated with moisture. The
fact, however, turned out quite the contrary. The hygrometer gave a
difference of 29.6 degrees, between the temperature of the air, and
the point at which dew was precipitated. This difference was nearly
double that which I had observed on the previous mornings. This
unusual degree of atmospheric dryness was accompanied by continual
flashes of lightning. Is it not an uncommon case, thus to find a
remarkable degree of aerial transparency with such a state of
weather?


Generally the atmosphere is hazy; and this is caused by the falling
of impalpably fine dust, which was found to have slightly injured
the astronomical instruments. The morning before we anchored at
Porto Praya, I collected a little packet of this brown-coloured
fine dust, which appeared to have been filtered from the wind by
the gauze of the vane at the masthead. Mr. Lyell has also given me
four packets of dust which fell on a vessel a few hundred miles
northward of these islands. Professor Ehrenberg finds that this
dust consists in great part of infusoria with siliceous shields,
and of the siliceous tissue of plants. (1/3. I must take this
opportunity of acknowledging the great kindness with which this
illustrious naturalist has examined many of my specimens. I have
sent (June 1845) a full account of the falling of this dust to the
Geological Society.) In five little packets which I sent him, he
has ascertained no less than sixty-seven different organic forms!
The infusoria, with the exception of two marine species, are all
inhabitants of fresh-water. I have found no less than fifteen
different accounts of dust having fallen on vessels when far out in
the Atlantic. 
"""
,
"""
From the direction of the wind whenever it has
fallen, and from its having always fallen during those months when
the harmattan is known to raise clouds of dust high into the
atmosphere, we may feel sure that it all comes from Africa. It is,
however, a very singular fact, that, although Professor Ehrenberg
knows many species of infusoria peculiar to Africa, he finds none
of these in the dust which I sent him. On the other hand, he finds
in it two species which hitherto he knows as living only in South
America. The dust falls in such quantities as to dirty everything
on board, and to hurt people's eyes; vessels even have run on shore
owing to the obscurity of the atmosphere. It has often fallen on
ships when several hundred, and even more than a thousand miles
from the coast of Africa, and at points sixteen hundred miles
distant in a north and south direction. In some dust which was
collected on a vessel three hundred miles from the land, I was much
surprised to find particles of stone above the thousandth of an
inch square, mixed with finer matter. After this fact one need not
be surprised at the diffusion of the far lighter and smaller
sporules of cryptogamic plants.


The geology of this island is the most interesting part of its
natural history. On entering the harbour, a perfectly horizontal
white band in the face of the sea cliff, may be seen running for
some miles along the coast, and at the height of about forty-five
feet above the water. Upon examination, this white stratum is found
to consist of calcareous matter, with numerous shells embedded,
most or all of which now exist on the neighbouring coast. It rests
on ancient volcanic rocks, and has been covered by a stream of
basalt, which must have entered the sea when the white shelly bed
was lying at the bottom. 
"""
,
"""
It is interesting to trace the changes,
produced by the heat of the overlying lava, on the friable mass,
which in parts has been converted into a crystalline limestone, and
in other parts into a compact spotted stone. Where the lime has
been caught up by the scoriaceous fragments of the lower surface of
the stream, it is converted into groups of beautifully radiated
fibres resembling arragonite. The beds of lava rise in successive
gently-sloping plains, towards the interior, whence the deluges of
melted stone have originally proceeded. Within historical times no
signs of volcanic activity have, I believe, been manifested in any
part of St. Jago. Even the form of a crater can but rarely be
discovered on the summits of the many red cindery hills; yet the
more recent streams can be distinguished on the coast, forming
lines of cliffs of less height, but stretching out in advance of
those belonging to an older series: the height of the cliffs thus
affording a rude measure of the age of the streams.


During our stay, I observed the habits of some marine animals. A
large Aplysia is very common. This sea-slug is about five inches
long; and is of a dirty yellowish colour, veined with purple. On
each side of the lower surface, or foot, there is a broad membrane,
which appears sometimes to act as a ventilator, in causing a
current of water to flow over the dorsal branchiae or lungs. It
feeds on the delicate seaweeds which grow among the stones in muddy
and shallow water; and I found in its stomach several small
pebbles, as in the gizzard of a bird. This slug, when disturbed,
emits a very fine purplish-red fluid, which stains the water for
the space of a foot around. Besides this means of defence, an acrid
secretion, which is spread over its body, causes a sharp, stinging
sensation, similar to that produced by the Physalia, or Portuguese
man-of-war.
"""
,
"""
I was much interested, on several occasions, by watching the habits
of an Octopus, or cuttle-fish. Although common in the pools of
water left by the retiring tide, these animals were not easily
caught. By means of their long arms and suckers, they could drag
their bodies into very narrow crevices; and when thus fixed, it
required great force to remove them. At other times they darted
tail first, with the rapidity of an arrow, from one side of the
pool to the other, at the same instant discolouring the water with
a dark chestnut-brown ink. These animals also escape detection by a
very extraordinary, chameleon-like power of changing their colour.
They appear to vary their tints according to the nature of the
ground over which they pass: when in deep water, their general
shade was brownish purple, but when placed on the land, or in
shallow water, this dark tint changed into one of a yellowish
green. The colour, examined more carefully, was a French grey, with
numerous minute spots of bright yellow: the former of these varied
in intensity; the latter entirely disappeared and appeared again by
turns. These changes were effected in such a manner that clouds,
varying in tint between a hyacinth red and a chestnut-brown, were
continually passing over the body. (1/4. So named according to
Patrick Symes's nomenclature.) Any part, being subjected to a
slight shock of galvanism, became almost black: a similar effect,
but in a less degree, was produced by scratching the skin with a
needle. These clouds, or blushes as they may be called, are said to
be produced by the alternate expansion and contraction of minute
vesicles containing variously coloured fluids. (1/5. See
"Encyclopedia of Anatomy and Physiology" article "Cephalopoda.")
"""
,
"""
This cuttle-fish displayed its chameleon-like power both during the
act of swimming and whilst remaining stationary at the bottom. I
was much amused by the various arts to escape detection used by one
individual, which seemed fully aware that I was watching it.
Remaining for a time motionless, it would then stealthily advance
an inch or two, like a cat after a mouse; sometimes changing its
colour: it thus proceeded, till having gained a deeper part, it
darted away, leaving a dusky train of ink to hide the hole into
which it had crawled.


While looking for marine animals, with my head about two feet above
the rocky shore, I was more than once saluted by a jet of water,
accompanied by a slight grating noise. At first I could not think
what it was, but afterwards I found out that it was this
cuttle-fish, which, though concealed in a hole, thus often led me
to its discovery. That it possesses the power of ejecting water
there is no doubt, and it appeared to me that it could certainly
take good aim by directing the tube or siphon on the under side of
its body. From the difficulty which these animals have in carrying
their heads, they cannot crawl with ease when placed on the ground.
I observed that one which I kept in the cabin was slightly
phosphorescent in the dark.


In crossing the Atlantic we hove-to, during the morning of February
16th, 1832, close to the island of St. Paul's. This cluster of
rocks is situated in 0 degrees 58' north latitude, and 29 degrees
15' west longitude. It is 540 miles distant from the coast of
America, and 350 from the island of Fernando Noronha. The highest
point is only fifty feet above the level of the sea, and the entire
circumference is under three-quarters of a mile. 
"""
,
"""
This small point rises abruptly out of the depths of the ocean. Its mineralogical
constitution is not simple; in some parts the rock is of a cherty,
in others of a feldspathic nature, including thin veins of
serpentine. It is a remarkable fact that all the many small
islands, lying far from any continent, in the Pacific, Indian, and
Atlantic Oceans, with the exception of the Seychelles and this
little point of rock, are, I believe, composed either of coral or
of erupted matter. The volcanic nature of these oceanic islands is
evidently an extension of that law, and the effect of those same
causes, whether chemical or mechanical, from which it results that
a vast majority of the volcanoes now in action stand either near
sea-coasts or as islands in the midst of the sea.


The rocks of St. Paul appear from a distance of a brilliantly white
colour. This is partly owing to the dung of a vast multitude of
seafowl, and partly to a coating of a hard glossy substance with a
pearly lustre, which is intimately united to the surface of the
rocks. This, when examined with a lens, is found to consist of
numerous exceedingly thin layers, its total thickness being about
the tenth of an inch. It contains much animal matter, and its
origin, no doubt, is due to the action of the rain or spray on the
birds' dung. Below some small masses of guano at Ascension, and on
the Abrolhos Islets, I found certain stalactitic branching bodies,
formed apparently in the same manner as the thin white coating on
these rocks. The branching bodies so closely resembled in general
appearance certain nulliporae (a family of hard calcareous
sea-plants), that in lately looking hastily over my collection I
did not perceive the difference. The globular extremities of the
branches are of a pearly texture, like the enamel of teeth, but so
hard as just to scratch plate-glass. 
"""
,
"""
I may here mention, that on a part of the coast of Ascension, where there is a vast accumulation
of shelly sand, an incrustation is deposited on the tidal rocks, by
the water of the sea, resembling, as represented in Plate 4,
certain cryptogamic plants (Marchantiae) often seen on damp walls.
The surface of the fronds is beautifully glossy; and those parts
formed where fully exposed to the light, are of a jet black colour,
but those shaded under ledges are only grey. I have shown specimens
of this incrustation to several geologists, and they all thought
that they were of volcanic or igneous origin! In its hardness and
translucency--in its polish, equal to that of the finest
oliva-shell--in the bad smell given out, and loss of colour under
the blowpipe--it shows a close similarity with living sea-shells.
Moreover in sea-shells, it is known that the parts habitually
covered and shaded by the mantle of the animal, are of a paler
colour than those fully exposed to the light, just as is the case
with this incrustation. When we remember that lime, either as a
phosphate or carbonate, enters into the composition of the hard
parts, such as bones and shells, of all living animals, it is an
interesting physiological fact to find substances harder than the
enamel of teeth, and coloured surfaces as well polished as those of
a fresh shell, re-formed through inorganic means from dead organic
matter--mocking, also, in shape, some of the lower vegetable
productions. (1/6. Mr. Horner and Sir David Brewster have described
("Philosophical Transactions" 1836 page 65) a singular "artificial
substance resembling shell." It is deposited in fine, transparent,
highly polished, brown-coloured laminae, possessing peculiar
optical properties, on the inside of a vessel, in which cloth,
first prepared with glue and then with lime, is made to revolve
rapidly in water. It is much softer, more transparent, and contains
more animal matter, than the natural incrustation at Ascension; but
we here again see the strong tendency which carbonate of lime and
animal matter evince to form a solid substance allied to shell.)
"""
,
"""
We found on St. Paul's only two kinds of birds--the booby and the
noddy. The former is a species of gannet, and the latter a tern.
Both are of a tame and stupid disposition, and are so unaccustomed
to visitors, that I could have killed any number of them with my
geological hammer. The booby lays her eggs on the bare rock; but
the tern makes a very simple nest with seaweed. By the side of many
of these nests a small flying-fish was placed; which I suppose, had
been brought by the male bird for its partner. It was amusing to
watch how quickly a large and active crab (Graspus), which inhabits
the crevices of the rock, stole the fish from the side of the nest,
as soon as we had disturbed the parent birds. Sir W. Symonds, one
of the few persons who have landed here, informs me that he saw the
crabs dragging even the young birds out of their nests, and
devouring them. Not a single plant, not even a lichen, grows on
this islet; yet it is inhabited by several insects and spiders. The
following list completes, I believe, the terrestrial fauna: a fly
(Olfersia) living on the booby, and a tick which must have come
here as a parasite on the birds; a small brown moth, belonging to a
genus that feeds on feathers; a beetle (Quedius) and a woodlouse
from beneath the dung; and lastly, numerous spiders, which I
suppose prey on these small attendants and scavengers of the
waterfowl. The often-repeated description of the stately palm and
other noble tropical plants, then birds, and lastly man, taking
possession of the coral islets as soon as formed, in the Pacific,
is probably not quite correct; I fear it destroys the poetry of
this story, that feather and dirt-feeding and parasitic insects and
spiders should be the first inhabitants of newly formed oceanic
land.
"""
,
"""
The smallest rock in the tropical seas, by giving a foundation for
the growth of innumerable kinds of seaweed and compound animals,
supports likewise a large number of fish. The sharks and the seamen
in the boats maintained a constant struggle which should secure the
greater share of the prey caught by the fishing-lines. I have heard
that a rock near the Bermudas, lying many miles out at sea, and at
a considerable depth, was first discovered by the circumstance of
fish having been observed in the neighbourhood.


As far as I was enabled to observe, during the few hours we stayed
at this place, the constitution of the island is volcanic, but
probably not of a recent date. The most remarkable feature is a
conical hill, about one thousand feet high, the upper part of which
is exceedingly steep, and on one side overhangs its base. The rock
is phonolite, and is divided into irregular columns. On viewing one
of these isolated masses, at first one is inclined to believe that
it has been suddenly pushed up in a semi-fluid state. At St.
Helena, however, I ascertained that some pinnacles, of a nearly
similar figure and constitution, had been formed by the injection
of melted rock into yielding strata, which thus had formed the
moulds for these gigantic obelisks. The whole island is covered
with wood; but from the dryness of the climate there is no
appearance of luxuriance. Half-way up the mountain some great
masses of the columnar rock, shaded by laurel-like trees, and
ornamented by others covered with fine pink flowers but without a
single leaf, gave a pleasing effect to the nearer parts of the
scenery.


The day has past delightfully. Delight itself, however, is a weak
term to express the feelings of a naturalist who, for the first
time, has wandered by himself in a Brazilian forest. 
"""
,
"""
The elegance of the grasses, the novelty of the parasitical plants, the beauty
of the flowers, the glossy green of the foliage, but above all the
general luxuriance of the vegetation, filled me with admiration. A
most paradoxical mixture of sound and silence pervades the shady
parts of the wood. The noise from the insects is so loud, that it
may be heard even in a vessel anchored several hundred yards from
the shore; yet within the recesses of the forest a universal
silence appears to reign. To a person fond of natural history, such
a day as this brings with it a deeper pleasure than he can ever
hope to experience again. After wandering about for some hours, I
returned to the landing-place; but, before reaching it, I was
overtaken by a tropical storm. I tried to find shelter under a
tree, which was so thick that it would never have been penetrated
by common English rain; but here, in a couple of minutes, a little
torrent flowed down the trunk. It is to this violence of the rain
that we must attribute the verdure at the bottom of the thickest
woods: if the showers were like those of a colder clime, the
greater part would be absorbed or evaporated before it reached the
ground. I will not at present attempt to describe the gaudy scenery
of this noble bay, because, in our homeward voyage, we called here
a second time, and I shall then have occasion to remark on it.


Along the whole coast of Brazil, for a length of at least 2000
miles, and certainly for a considerable space inland, wherever
solid rock occurs, it belongs to a granitic formation. The
circumstance of this enormous area being constituted of materials
which most geologists believe to have been crystallised when heated
under pressure, gives rise to many curious reflections. Was this
effect produced beneath the depths of a profound ocean? or did a
covering of strata formerly extend over it, which has since been
removed? Can we believe that any power, acting for a time short of
infinity, could have denuded the granite over so many thousand
square leagues?
"""
,
"""
On a point not far from the city, where a rivulet entered the sea,
I observed a fact connected with a subject discussed by Humboldt.
(1/7. "Personal Narrative" volume 5 part 1 page 18.) At the
cataracts of the great rivers Orinoco, Nile, and Congo, the
syenitic rocks are coated by a black substance, appearing as if
they had been polished with plumbago. The layer is of extreme
thinness; and on analysis by Berzelius it was found to consist of
the oxides of manganese and iron. In the Orinoco it occurs on the
rocks periodically washed by the floods, and in those parts alone
where the stream is rapid; or, as the Indians say, "the rocks are
black where the waters are white." Here the coating is of a rich
brown instead of a black colour, and seems to be composed of
ferruginous matter alone. Hand specimens fail to give a just idea
of these brown burnished stones which glitter in the sun's rays.
They occur only within the limits of the tidal waves; and as the
rivulet slowly trickles down, the surf must supply the polishing
power of the cataracts in the great rivers. In like manner, the
rise and fall of the tide probably answer to the periodical
inundations; and thus the same effects are produced under
apparently different but really similar circumstances. The origin,
however, of these coatings of metallic oxides, which seem as if
cemented to the rocks, is not understood; and no reason, I believe,
can be assigned for their thickness remaining the same.


One day I was amused by watching the habits of the Diodon
antennatus, which was caught swimming near the shore. This fish,
with its flabby skin, is well known to possess the singular power
of distending itself into a nearly spherical form. After having
been taken out of water for a short time, and then again immersed
in it, a considerable quantity both of water and air is absorbed by
the mouth, and perhaps likewise by the branchial orifices. 
"""
,
"""
This process is effected by two methods: the air is swallowed, and is
then forced into the cavity of the body, its return being prevented
by a muscular contraction which is externally visible: but the
water enters in a gentle stream through the mouth, which is kept
wide open and motionless; this latter action must, therefore,
depend on suction. The skin about the abdomen is much looser than
that on the back; hence, during the inflation, the lower surface
becomes far more distended than the upper; and the fish, in
consequence, floats with its back downwards. Cuvier doubts whether
the Diodon in this position is able to swim; but not only can it
thus move forward in a straight line, but it can turn round to
either side. This latter movement is effected solely by the aid of
the pectoral fins; the tail being collapsed and not used. From the
body being buoyed up with so much air, the branchial openings are
out of water, but a stream drawn in by the mouth constantly flows
through them.


The fish, having remained in this distended state for a short time,
generally expelled the air and water with considerable force from
the branchial apertures and mouth. It could emit, at will, a
certain portion of the water, and it appears, therefore probable
that this fluid is taken in partly for the sake of regulating its
specific gravity. This Diodon possessed several means of defence.
It could give a severe bite, and could eject water from its mouth
to some distance, at the same time making a curious noise by the
movement of its jaws. By the inflation of its body, the papillae,
with which the skin is covered, become erect and pointed. But the
most curious circumstance is, that it secretes from the skin of its
belly, when handled, a most beautiful carmine-red fibrous matter,
which stains ivory and paper in so permanent a manner, that the
tint is retained with all its brightness to the present day: I am
quite ignorant of the nature and use of this secretion.
"""
,
"""
I have heard from Dr. Allan of Forres, that he has frequently found a
Diodon, floating alive and distended, in the stomach of the shark;
and that on several occasions he has known it eat its way, not only
through the coats of the stomach, but through the sides of the
monster, which has thus been killed. Who would ever have imagined
that a little soft fish could have destroyed the great and savage
shark?


We sailed from Bahia. A few days afterwards, when not far distant
from the Abrolhos Islets, my attention was called to a
reddish-brown appearance in the sea. The whole surface of the
water, as it appeared under a weak lens, seemed as if covered by
chopped bits of hay, with their ends jagged. These are minute
cylindrical confervae, in bundles or rafts of from twenty to sixty
in each. Mr. Berkeley informs me that they are the same species
(Trichodesmium erythraeum) with that found over large spaces in the
Red Sea, and whence its name of Red Sea is derived. (1/8. M.
Montagne in "Comptes Rendus" etc. Juillet 1844; and "Annales des
Sciences Naturelles" December 1844.) Their numbers must be
infinite: the ship passed through several bands of them, one of
which was about ten yards wide, and, judging from the mud-like
colour of the water, at least two and a half miles long. In almost
every long voyage some account is given of these confervae. They
appear especially common in the sea near Australia; and off Cape
Leeuwin I found an allied, but smaller and apparently different
species. Captain Cook, in his third voyage, remarks that the
sailors gave to this appearance the name of sea-sawdust.
"""
,
"""
Near Keeling Atoll, in the Indian Ocean, I observed many little
masses of confervae a few inches square, consisting of long
cylindrical threads of excessive thinness, so as to be barely
visible to the naked eye, mingled with other rather larger bodies,
finely conical at both ends. Two of these are shown in Plate 6
united together. They vary in length from .04 to .06, and even to
.08 of an inch in length; and in diameter from .006 to .008 of an
inch. Near one extremity of the cylindrical part, a green septum,
formed of granular matter, and thickest in the middle, may
generally be seen. This, I believe, is the bottom of a most
delicate, colourless sac, composed of a pulpy substance, which
lines the exterior case, but does not extend within the extreme
conical points. In some specimens, small but perfect spheres of
brownish granular matter supplied the places of the septa; and I
observed the curious process by which they were produced. The pulpy
matter of the internal coating suddenly grouped itself into lines,
some of which assumed a form radiating from a common centre; it
then continued, with an irregular and rapid movement, to contract
itself, so that in the course of a second the whole was united into
a perfect little sphere, which occupied the position of the septum
at one end of the now quite hollow case. The formation of the
granular sphere was hastened by any accidental injury. I may add,
that frequently a pair of these bodies were attached to each other,
as represented above, cone beside cone, at that end where the
septum occurs.


I will here add a few other observations connected with the
discoloration of the sea from organic causes. On the coast of
Chile, a few leagues north of Concepcion, the "Beagle" one day
passed through great bands of muddy water, exactly like that of a
swollen river; and again, a degree south of Valparaiso, when fifty
miles from the land, the same appearance was still more extensive.
"""
,
"""
Some of the water placed in a glass was of a pale reddish tint;
and, examined under a microscope, was seen to swarm with minute
animalcula darting about, and often exploding. Their shape is oval,
and contracted in the middle by a ring of vibrating curved ciliae.
It was, however, very difficult to examine them with care, for
almost the instant motion ceased, even while crossing the field of
vision, their bodies burst. Sometimes both ends burst at once,
sometimes only one, and a quantity of coarse, brownish, granular
matter was ejected. The animal an instant before bursting expanded
to half again its natural size; and the explosion took place about
fifteen seconds after the rapid progressive motion had ceased: in a
few cases it was preceded for a short interval by a rotatory
movement on the longer axis. About two minutes after any number
were isolated in a drop of water, they thus perished. The animals
move with the narrow apex forwards, by the aid of their vibratory
ciliae, and generally by rapid starts. They are exceedingly minute,
and quite invisible to the naked eye, only covering a space equal
to the square of the thousandth of an inch. Their numbers were
infinite; for the smallest drop of water which I could remove
contained very many. In one day we passed through two spaces of
water thus stained, one of which alone must have extended over
several square miles. What incalculable numbers of these
microscopical animals! The colour of the water, as seen at some
distance, was like that of a river which has flowed through a red
clay district; but under the shade of the vessel's side it was
quite as dark as chocolate. The line where the red and blue water
joined was distinctly defined. The weather for some days previously
had been calm, and the ocean abounded, to an unusual degree, with
living creatures.
"""
,
"""
In the sea around Tierra del Fuego, and at no great distance from
the land, I have seen narrow lines of water of a bright red colour,
from the number of crustacea, which somewhat resemble in form large
prawns. The sealers call them whale-food. Whether whales feed on
them I do not know; but terns, cormorants, and immense herds of
great unwieldy seals derive, on some parts of the coast, their
chief sustenance from these swimming crabs. Seamen invariably
attribute the discoloration of the water to spawn; but I found this
to be the case only on one occasion. At the distance of several
leagues from the Archipelago of the Galapagos, the ship sailed
through three strips of a dark yellowish, or mud-like water; these
strips were some miles long, but only a few yards wide, and they
were separated from the surrounding water by a sinuous yet distinct
margin. The colour was caused by little gelatinous balls, about the
fifth of an inch in diameter, in which numerous minute spherical
ovules were embedded: they were of two distinct kinds, one being of
a reddish colour and of a different shape from the other. I cannot
form a conjecture as to what two kinds of animals these belonged.
Captain Colnett remarks that this appearance is very common among
the Galapagos Islands, and that the direction of the bands
indicates that of the currents; in the described case, however, the
line was caused by the wind. The only other appearance which I have
to notice, is a thin oily coat on the water which displays
iridescent colours. I saw a considerable tract of the ocean thus
covered on the coast of Brazil; the seamen attributed it to the
putrefying carcass of some whale, which probably was floating at no
great distance. I do not here mention the minute gelatinous
particles, hereafter to be referred to, which are frequently
dispersed throughout the water, for they are not sufficiently
abundant to create any change of colour.
"""
,
"""
There are two circumstances in the above accounts which appear
remarkable: first, how do the various bodies which form the bands
with defined edges keep together? In the case of the prawn-like
crabs, their movements were as coinstantaneous as in a regiment of
soldiers; but this cannot happen from anything like voluntary
action with the ovules, or the confervae, nor is it probable among
the infusoria. Secondly, what causes the length and narrowness of
the bands? The appearance so much resembles that which may be seen
in every torrent, where the stream uncoils into long streaks the
froth collected in the eddies, that I must attribute the effect to
a similar action either of the currents of the air or sea. Under
this supposition we must believe that the various organised bodies
are produced in certain favourable places, and are thence removed
by the set of either wind or water. I confess, however, there is a
very great difficulty in imagining any one spot to be the
birthplace of the millions of millions of animalcula and confervae:
for whence come the germs at such points?--the parent bodies having
been distributed by the winds and waves over the immense ocean. But
on no other hypothesis can I understand their linear grouping. I
may add that Scoresby remarks that green water abounding with
pelagic animals is invariably found in a certain part of the Arctic
Sea.
A few days after our arrival I became acquainted with an Englishman
who was going to visit his estate, situated rather more than a
hundred miles from the capital, to the northward of Cape Frio. I
gladly accepted his kind offer of allowing me to accompany him.
"""
,
"""
The first ray of light which illumines the gloom, and converts into a
dazzling brilliancy that obscurity in which the earlier history of the
public career of the immortal Pickwick would appear to be involved, is
derived from the perusal of the following entry in the Transactions of
the Pickwick Club, which the editor of these papers feels the highest
pleasure in laying before his readers, as a proof of the careful
attention, indefatigable assiduity, and nice discrimination, with which
his search among the multifarious documents confided to him has been
conducted.


'May 12, 1827. Joseph Smiggers, Esq., P.V.P.M.P.C. [Perpetual
Vice-President--Member Pickwick Club], presiding. The following
resolutions unanimously agreed to:--


'That this Association has heard read, with feelings of unmingled
satisfaction, and unqualified approval, the paper communicated by Samuel
Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C. [General Chairman--Member Pickwick Club],
entitled "Speculations on the Source of the Hampstead Ponds, with some
Observations on the Theory of Tittlebats;" and that this Association
does hereby return its warmest thanks to the said Samuel Pickwick, Esq.,
G.C.M.P.C., for the same.


'That while this Association is deeply sensible of the advantages which
must accrue to the cause of science, from the production to which they
have just adverted--no less than from the unwearied researches of
Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., in Hornsey, Highgate, Brixton, and
Camberwell--they cannot but entertain a lively sense of the inestimable
benefits which must inevitably result from carrying the speculations of
that learned man into a wider field, from extending his travels, and,
consequently, enlarging his sphere of observation, to the advancement of
knowledge, and the diffusion of learning.


'That, with the view just mentioned, this Association has taken into its
serious consideration a proposal, emanating from the aforesaid, Samuel
Pickwick, Esq., G.C.M.P.C., and three other Pickwickians hereinafter
named, for forming a new branch of United Pickwickians, under the title
of The Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Club.
"""
,
"""
'That the said proposal has received the sanction and approval of this
Association. 'That the Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Club
is therefore hereby constituted; and that Samuel Pickwick, Esq.,
G.C.M.P.C., Tracy Tupman, Esq., M.P.C., Augustus Snodgrass, Esq.,
M.P.C., and Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., M.P.C., are hereby nominated and
appointed members of the same; and that they be requested to forward,
from time to time, authenticated accounts of their journeys and
investigations, of their observations of character and manners, and of
the whole of their adventures, together with all tales and papers to
which local scenery or associations may give rise, to the Pickwick Club,
stationed in London.


'That this Association cordially recognises the principle of every
member of the Corresponding Society defraying his own travelling
expenses; and that it sees no objection whatever to the members of
the said society pursuing their inquiries for any length of time they
please, upon the same terms.


'That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society be, and
are hereby informed, that their proposal to pay the postage of their
letters, and the carriage of their parcels, has been deliberated upon by
this Association: that this Association considers such proposal worthy
of the great minds from which it emanated, and that it hereby signifies
its perfect acquiescence therein.'


A casual observer, adds the secretary, to whose notes we are indebted
for the following account--a casual observer might possibly have
remarked nothing extraordinary in the bald head, and circular
spectacles, which were intently turned towards his (the secretary's)
face, during the reading of the above resolutions: to those who knew
that the gigantic brain of Pickwick was working beneath that forehead,
and that the beaming eyes of Pickwick were twinkling behind those
glasses, the sight was indeed an interesting one. 
"""
,
"""
There sat the man who had traced to their source the mighty ponds of Hampstead, and agitated
the scientific world with his Theory of Tittlebats, as calm and unmoved
as the deep waters of the one on a frosty day, or as a solitary specimen
of the other in the inmost recesses of an earthen jar. And how much more
interesting did the spectacle become, when, starting into full life
and animation, as a simultaneous call for 'Pickwick' burst from his
followers, that illustrious man slowly mounted into the Windsor chair,
on which he had been previously seated, and addressed the club himself
had founded. What a study for an artist did that exciting scene present!
The eloquent Pickwick, with one hand gracefully concealed behind
his coat tails, and the other waving in air to assist his glowing
declamation; his elevated position revealing those tights and gaiters,
which, had they clothed an ordinary man, might have passed without
observation, but which, when Pickwick clothed them--if we may use the
expression--inspired involuntary awe and respect; surrounded by the men
who had volunteered to share the perils of his travels, and who were
destined to participate in the glories of his discoveries. On his right
sat Mr. Tracy Tupman--the too susceptible Tupman, who to the wisdom and
experience of maturer years superadded the enthusiasm and ardour of a
boy in the most interesting and pardonable of human weaknesses--love.
Time and feeding had expanded that once romantic form; the black silk
waistcoat had become more and more developed; inch by inch had the gold
watch-chain beneath it disappeared from within the range of Tupman's
vision; and gradually had the capacious chin encroached upon the
borders of the white cravat: but the soul of Tupman had known no
change--admiration of the fair sex was still its ruling passion. On the
left of his great leader sat the poetic Snodgrass, and near him again
the sporting Winkle; the former poetically enveloped in a mysterious
blue cloak with a canine-skin collar, and the latter communicating
additional lustre to a new green shooting-coat, plaid neckerchief, and
closely-fitted drabs.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Pickwick's oration upon this occasion, together with the debate
thereon, is entered on the Transactions of the Club. Both bear a strong
affinity to the discussions of other celebrated bodies; and, as it is
always interesting to trace a resemblance between the proceedings of
great men, we transfer the entry to these pages.


'Mr. Pickwick observed (says the secretary) that fame was dear to the
heart of every man. Poetic fame was dear to the heart of his friend
Snodgrass; the fame of conquest was equally dear to his friend Tupman;
and the desire of earning fame in the sports of the field, the air,
and the water was uppermost in the breast of his friend Winkle. He (Mr.
Pickwick) would not deny that he was influenced by human passions and
human feelings (cheers)--possibly by human weaknesses (loud cries of
"No"); but this he would say, that if ever the fire of self-importance
broke out in his bosom, the desire to benefit the human race in
preference effectually quenched it. The praise of mankind was his swing;
philanthropy was his insurance office. (Vehement cheering.) He had felt
some pride--he acknowledged it freely, and let his enemies make the most
of it--he had felt some pride when he presented his Tittlebatian Theory
to the world; it might be celebrated or it might not. (A cry of "It
is," and great cheering.) He would take the assertion of that honourable
Pickwickian whose voice he had just heard--it was celebrated; but if
the fame of that treatise were to extend to the farthest confines of the
known world, the pride with which he should reflect on the authorship of
that production would be as nothing compared with the pride with which
he looked around him, on this, the proudest moment of his existence.
(Cheers.) He was a humble individual. ("No, no.") Still he could not but
feel that they had selected him for a service of great honour, and
of some danger. 
"""
,
"""
Travelling was in a troubled state, and the minds of
coachmen were unsettled. Let them look abroad and contemplate the scenes
which were enacting around them. Stage-coaches were upsetting in all
directions, horses were bolting, boats were overturning, and boilers
were bursting. (Cheers--a voice "No.") No! (Cheers.) Let that honourable
Pickwickian who cried "No" so loudly come forward and deny it, if he
could. (Cheers.) Who was it that cried "No"? (Enthusiastic cheering.)
Was it some vain and disappointed man--he would not say haberdasher
(loud cheers)--who, jealous of the praise which had been--perhaps
undeservedly--bestowed on his (Mr. Pickwick's) researches, and smarting
under the censure which had been heaped upon his own feeble attempts at
rivalry, now took this vile and calumnious mode of---


'Mr. BLOTTON (of Aldgate) rose to order. Did the honourable Pickwickian
allude to him? (Cries of "Order," "Chair," "Yes," "No," "Go on," "Leave
off," etc.)


'Mr. PICKWICK would not put up to be put down by clamour. He had alluded
to the honourable gentleman. (Great excitement.)


'Mr. BLOTTON would only say then, that he repelled the hon. gent.'s
false and scurrilous accusation, with profound contempt. (Great
cheering.) The hon. gent. was a humbug. (Immense confusion, and loud
cries of "Chair," and "Order.")


'Mr. A. SNODGRASS rose to order. He threw himself upon the chair.
(Hear.) He wished to know whether this disgraceful contest between two
members of that club should be allowed to continue. (Hear, hear.)


'The CHAIRMAN was quite sure the hon. Pickwickian would withdraw the
expression he had just made use of.


'Mr. BLOTTON, with all possible respect for the chair, was quite sure he
would not.


'The CHAIRMAN felt it his imperative duty to demand of the honourable
gentleman, whether he had used the expression which had just escaped him
in a common sense.
"""
,
"""
Of late years an abundant shower of curates has fallen upon the north of
England: they lie very thick on the hills; every parish has one or more
of them; they are young enough to be very active, and ought to be doing
a great deal of good. But not of late years are we about to speak; we
are going back to the beginning of this century: late years--present
years are dusty, sunburnt, hot, arid; we will evade the noon, forget it
in siesta, pass the midday in slumber, and dream of dawn.


If you think, from this prelude, that anything like a romance is
preparing for you, reader, you never were more mistaken. Do you
anticipate sentiment, and poetry, and reverie? Do you expect passion,
and stimulus, and melodrama? Calm your expectations; reduce them to a
lowly standard. Something real, cool, and solid lies before you;
something unromantic as Monday morning, when all who have work wake with
the consciousness that they must rise and betake themselves thereto. It
is not positively affirmed that you shall not have a taste of the
exciting, perhaps towards the middle and close of the meal, but it is
resolved that the first dish set upon the table shall be one that a
Catholic--ay, even an Anglo-Catholic--might eat on Good Friday in
Passion Week: it shall be cold lentils and vinegar without oil; it shall
be unleavened bread with bitter herbs, and no roast lamb.


Of late years, I say, an abundant shower of curates has fallen upon the
north of England; but in eighteen-hundred-eleven-twelve that affluent
rain had not descended. Curates were scarce then: there was no Pastoral
Aid--no Additional Curates' Society to stretch a helping hand to
worn-out old rectors and incumbents, and give them the wherewithal to
pay a vigorous young colleague from Oxford or Cambridge. 
"""
,
"""
The present successors of the apostles, disciples of Dr. Pusey and tools of the
Propaganda, were at that time being hatched under cradle-blankets, or
undergoing regeneration by nursery-baptism in wash-hand basins. You
could not have guessed by looking at any one of them that the
Italian-ironed double frills of its net-cap surrounded the brows of a
preordained, specially-sanctified successor of St. Paul, St. Peter, or
St. John; nor could you have foreseen in the folds of its long
night-gown the white surplice in which it was hereafter cruelly to
exercise the souls of its parishioners, and strangely to nonplus its
old-fashioned vicar by flourishing aloft in a pulpit the shirt-like
raiment which had never before waved higher than the reading-desk.


Yet even in those days of scarcity there were curates: the precious
plant was rare, but it might be found. A certain favoured district in
the West Riding of Yorkshire could boast three rods of Aaron blossoming
within a circuit of twenty miles. You shall see them, reader. Step into
this neat garden-house on the skirts of Whinbury, walk forward into the
little parlour. There they are at dinner. Allow me to introduce them to
you: Mr. Donne, curate of Whinbury; Mr. Malone, curate of Briarfield;
Mr. Sweeting, curate of Nunnely. These are Mr. Donne's lodgings, being
the habitation of one John Gale, a small clothier. Mr. Donne has kindly
invited his brethren to regale with him. You and I will join the party,
see what is to be seen, and hear what is to be heard. At present,
however, they are only eating; and while they eat we will talk aside.


These gentlemen are in the bloom of youth; they possess all the activity
of that interesting age--an activity which their moping old vicars would
fain turn into the channel of their pastoral duties, often expressing a
wish to see it expended in a diligent superintendence of the schools,
and in frequent visits to the sick of their respective parishes. But the
youthful Levites feel this to be dull work; they prefer lavishing their
energies on a course of proceeding which, though to other eyes it appear
more heavy with _ennui_, more cursed with monotony, than the toil of
the weaver at his loom, seems to yield them an unfailing supply of
enjoyment and occupation.
"""
,
"""
I allude to a rushing backwards and forwards, amongst themselves, to and
from their respective lodgings--not a round, but a triangle of visits,
which they keep up all the year through, in winter, spring, summer, and
autumn. Season and weather make no difference; with unintelligible zeal
they dare snow and hail, wind and rain, mire and dust, to go and dine,
or drink tea, or sup with each other. What attracts them it would be
difficult to say. It is not friendship, for whenever they meet they
quarrel. It is not religion--the thing is never named amongst them;
theology they may discuss occasionally, but piety--never. It is not the
love of eating and drinking: each might have as good a joint and
pudding, tea as potent, and toast as succulent, at his own lodgings, as
is served to him at his brother's. Mrs. Gale, Mrs. Hogg, and Mrs.
Whipp--their respective landladies--affirm that "it is just for naught
else but to give folk trouble." By "folk" the good ladies of course mean
themselves, for indeed they are kept in a continual "fry" by this system
of mutual invasion.


Mr. Donne and his guests, as I have said, are at dinner; Mrs. Gale waits
on them, but a spark of the hot kitchen fire is in her eye. She
considers that the privilege of inviting a friend to a meal
occasionally, without additional charge (a privilege included in the
terms on which she lets her lodgings), has been quite sufficiently
exercised of late. The present week is yet but at Thursday, and on
Monday Mr. Malone, the curate of Briarfield, came to breakfast and
stayed dinner; on Tuesday Mr. Malone and Mr. Sweeting of Nunnely came to
tea, remained to supper, occupied the spare bed, and favoured her with
their company to breakfast on Wednesday morning; now, on Thursday, they
are both here at dinner, and she is almost certain they will stay all
night. "C'en est trop," she would say, if she could speak French.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Sweeting is mincing the slice of roast beef on his plate, and
complaining that it is very tough; Mr. Donne says the beer is flat. Ay,
that is the worst of it: if they would only be civil Mrs. Gale wouldn't
mind it so much, if they would only seem satisfied with what they get
she wouldn't care; but "these young parsons is so high and so scornful,
they set everybody beneath their 'fit.' They treat her with less than
civility, just because she doesn't keep a servant, but does the work of
the house herself, as her mother did afore her; then they are always
speaking against Yorkshire ways and Yorkshire folk," and by that very
token Mrs. Gale does not believe one of them to be a real gentleman, or
come of gentle kin. "The old parsons is worth the whole lump of college
lads; they know what belongs to good manners, and is kind to high and
low."


"More bread!" cries Mr. Malone, in a tone which, though prolonged but to
utter two syllables, proclaims him at once a native of the land of
shamrocks and potatoes. Mrs. Gale hates Mr. Malone more than either of
the other two; but she fears him also, for he is a tall, strongly-built
personage, with real Irish legs and arms, and a face as genuinely
national--not the Milesian face, not Daniel O'Connell's style, but the
high-featured, North-American-Indian sort of visage, which belongs to a
certain class of the Irish gentry, and has a petrified and proud look,
better suited to the owner of an estate of slaves than to the landlord
of a free peasantry. Mr. Malone's father termed himself a gentleman: he
was poor and in debt, and besottedly arrogant; and his son was like him.


Mrs. Gale offered the loaf.


"Cut it, woman," said her guest; and the "woman" cut it accordingly. Had
she followed her inclinations, she would have cut the parson also; her
Yorkshire soul revolted absolutely from his manner of command.
"""
,
"""
The curates had good appetites, and though the beef was "tough," they
ate a great deal of it. They swallowed, too, a tolerable allowance of
the "flat beer," while a dish of Yorkshire pudding, and two tureens of
vegetables, disappeared like leaves before locusts. The cheese, too,
received distinguished marks of their attention; and a "spice-cake,"
which followed by way of dessert, vanished like a vision, and was no
more found. Its elegy was chanted in the kitchen by Abraham, Mrs. Gale's
son and heir, a youth of six summers; he had reckoned upon the reversion
thereof, and when his mother brought down the empty platter, he lifted
up his voice and wept sore.


The curates, meantime, sat and sipped their wine, a liquor of
unpretending vintage, moderately enjoyed. Mr. Malone, indeed, would much
rather have had whisky; but Mr. Donne, being an Englishman, did not keep
the beverage. While they sipped they argued, not on politics, nor on
philosophy, nor on literature--these topics were now, as ever, totally
without interest for them--not even on theology, practical or doctrinal,
but on minute points of ecclesiastical discipline, frivolities which
seemed empty as bubbles to all save themselves. Mr. Malone, who
contrived to secure two glasses of wine, when his brethren contented
themselves with one, waxed by degrees hilarious after his fashion; that
is, he grew a little insolent, said rude things in a hectoring tone, and
laughed clamorously at his own brilliancy.


Each of his companions became in turn his butt. Malone had a stock of
jokes at their service, which he was accustomed to serve out regularly
on convivial occasions like the present, seldom varying his wit; for
which, indeed, there was no necessity, as he never appeared to consider
himself monotonous, and did not at all care what others thought. Mr.
Donne he favoured with hints about his extreme meagreness, allusions to
his turned-up nose, cutting sarcasms on a certain threadbare chocolate
surtout which that gentleman was accustomed to sport whenever it rained
or seemed likely to rain, and criticisms on a choice set of cockney
phrases and modes of pronunciation, Mr. Donne's own property, and
certainly deserving of remark for the elegance and finish they
communicated to his style.
"""
,
"""
Mr. Sweeting was bantered about his stature--he was a little man, a mere
boy in height and breadth compared with the athletic Malone; rallied on
his musical accomplishments--he played the flute and sang hymns like a
seraph, some young ladies of his parish thought; sneered at as "the
ladies' pet;" teased about his mamma and sisters, for whom poor Mr.
Sweeting had some lingering regard, and of whom he was foolish enough
now and then to speak in the presence of the priestly Paddy, from whose
anatomy the bowels of natural affection had somehow been omitted.


The victims met these attacks each in his own way: Mr. Donne with a
stilted self-complacency and half-sullen phlegm, the sole props of his
otherwise somewhat rickety dignity; Mr. Sweeting with the indifference
of a light, easy disposition, which never professed to have any dignity
to maintain.


When Malone's raillery became rather too offensive, which it soon did,
they joined, in an attempt to turn the tables on him by asking him how
many boys had shouted "Irish Peter!" after him as he came along the road
that day (Malone's name was Peter--the Rev. Peter Augustus Malone);
requesting to be informed whether it was the mode in Ireland for
clergymen to carry loaded pistols in their pockets, and a shillelah in
their hands, when they made pastoral visits; inquiring the signification
of such words as vele, firrum, hellum, storrum (so Mr. Malone invariably
pronounced veil, firm, helm, storm), and employing such other methods of
retaliation as the innate refinement of their minds suggested.


This, of course, would not do. Malone, being neither good-natured nor
phlegmatic, was presently in a towering passion. He vociferated,
gesticulated; Donne and Sweeting laughed. He reviled them as Saxons and
snobs at the very top pitch of his high Celtic voice; they taunted him
with being the native of a conquered land. 
"""
,
"""
He menaced rebellion in the name of his "counthry," vented bitter hatred against English rule; they
spoke of rags, beggary, and pestilence. The little parlour was in an
uproar; you would have thought a duel must follow such virulent abuse;
it seemed a wonder that Mr. and Mrs. Gale did not take alarm at the
noise, and send for a constable to keep the peace. But they were
accustomed to such demonstrations; they well knew that the curates never
dined or took tea together without a little exercise of the sort, and
were quite easy as to consequences, knowing that these clerical quarrels
were as harmless as they were noisy, that they resulted in nothing, and
that, on whatever terms the curates might part to-night, they would be
sure to meet the best friends in the world to-morrow morning.


As the worthy pair were sitting by their kitchen fire, listening to the
repeated and sonorous contact of Malone's fist with the mahogany plane
of the parlour table, and to the consequent start and jingle of
decanters and glasses following each assault, to the mocking laughter of
the allied English disputants, and the stuttering declamation of the
isolated Hibernian--as they thus sat, a foot was heard on the outer
door-step, and the knocker quivered to a sharp appeal.


Mr. Gale went and opened.


"Whom have you upstairs in the parlour?" asked a voice--a rather
remarkable voice, nasal in tone, abrupt in utterance.


"O Mr. Helstone, is it you, sir? I could hardly see you for the
darkness; it is so soon dark now. Will you walk in, sir?"


"I want to know first whether it is worth my while walking in. Whom have
you upstairs?"


"The curates, sir."


"What! all of them?"


"Yes, sir."


"Been dining here?"


"Yes, sir."


"That will do."


With these words a person entered--a middle-aged man, in black. He
walked straight across the kitchen to an inner door, opened it, inclined
his head forward, and stood listening. There was something to listen to,
for the noise above was just then louder than ever.
"""
,
"""
"Hey!" he ejaculated to himself; then turning to Mr. Gale--"Have you
often this sort of work?"


Mr. Gale had been a churchwarden, and was indulgent to the clergy.


"They're young, you know, sir--they're young," said he deprecatingly.


"Young! They want caning. Bad boys--bad boys! And if you were a
Dissenter, John Gale, instead of being a good Churchman, they'd do the
like--they'd expose themselves; but I'll----"


By way of finish to this sentence, he passed through the inner door,
drew it after him, and mounted the stair. Again he listened a few
minutes when he arrived at the upper room. Making entrance without
warning, he stood before the curates.


And they were silent; they were transfixed; and so was the invader.
He--a personage short of stature, but straight of port, and bearing on
broad shoulders a hawk's head, beak, and eye, the whole surmounted by a
Rehoboam, or shovel hat, which he did not seem to think it necessary to
lift or remove before the presence in which he then stood--_he_ folded
his arms on his chest and surveyed his young friends, if friends they
were, much at his leisure.


"What!" he began, delivering his words in a voice no longer nasal, but
deep--more than deep--a voice made purposely hollow and
cavernous--"what! has the miracle of Pentecost been renewed? Have the
cloven tongues come down again? Where are they? The sound filled the
whole house just now. I heard the seventeen languages in full action:
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in
Judea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, in
Egypt and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, strangers of Rome, Jews
and proselytes, Cretes and Arabians; every one of these must have had
its representative in this room two minutes since."
"""
,
"""
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Helstone," began Mr. Donne; "take a seat, pray,
sir. Have a glass of wine?"


His civilities received no answer. The falcon in the black coat
proceeded,--


"What do I talk about the gift of tongues? Gift, indeed! I mistook the
chapter, and book, and Testament--gospel for law, Acts for Genesis, the
city of Jerusalem for the plain of Shinar. It was no gift but the
confusion of tongues which has gabbled me deaf as a post. _You_,
apostles? What! you three? Certainly not; three presumptuous Babylonish
masons--neither more nor less!"


"I assure you, sir, we were only having a little chat together over a
glass of wine after a friendly dinner--settling the Dissenters!"


"Oh! settling the Dissenters, were you? Was Malone settling the
Dissenters? It sounded to me much more like settling his co-apostles.
You were quarrelling together, making almost as much noise--you three
alone--as Moses Barraclough, the preaching tailor, and all his hearers
are making in the Methodist chapel down yonder, where they are in the
thick of a revival. I know whose fault it is.--It is yours, Malone."


"Mine, sir?"


"Yours, sir. Donne and Sweeting were quiet before you came, and would be
quiet if you were gone. I wish, when you crossed the Channel, you had
left your Irish habits behind you. Dublin student ways won't do here.
The proceedings which might pass unnoticed in a wild bog and mountain
district in Connaught will, in a decent English parish, bring disgrace
on those who indulge in them, and, what is far worse, on the sacred
institution of which they are merely the humble appendages."


There was a certain dignity in the little elderly gentleman's manner of
rebuking these youths, though it was not, perhaps, quite the dignity
most appropriate to the occasion. Mr. Helstone, standing straight as a
ramrod, looking keen as a kite, presented, despite his clerical hat,
black coat, and gaiters, more the air of a veteran officer chiding his
subalterns than of a venerable priest exhorting his sons in the faith.
Gospel mildness, apostolic benignity, never seemed to have breathed
their influence over that keen brown visage, but firmness had fixed the
features, and sagacity had carved her own lines about them.
"""
,
"""
"I met Supplehough," he continued, "plodding through the mud this wet
night, going to preach at Milldean opposition shop. As I told you, I
heard Barraclough bellowing in the midst of a conventicle like a
possessed bull; and I find _you_, gentlemen, tarrying over your
half-pint of muddy port wine, and scolding like angry old women. No
wonder Supplehough should have dipped sixteen adult converts in a
day--which he did a fortnight since; no wonder Barraclough, scamp and
hypocrite as he is, should attract all the weaver-girls in their flowers
and ribbons, to witness how much harder are his knuckles than the wooden
brim of his tub; as little wonder that _you_, when you are left to
yourselves, without your rectors--myself, and Hall, and Boultby--to back
you, should too often perform the holy service of our church to bare
walls, and read your bit of a dry discourse to the clerk, and the
organist, and the beadle. But enough of the subject. I came to see
Malone.--I have an errand unto thee, O captain!"


"What is it?" inquired Malone discontentedly. "There can be no funeral
to take at this time of day."


"Have you any arms about you?"


"Arms, sir?--yes, and legs." And he advanced the mighty members.


"Bah! weapons I mean."


"I have the pistols you gave me yourself. I never part with them. I lay
them ready cocked on a chair by my bedside at night. I have my
blackthorn."


"Very good. Will you go to Hollow's Mill?"


"What is stirring at Hollow's Mill?"


"Nothing as yet, nor perhaps will be; but Moore is alone there. He has
sent all the workmen he can trust to Stilbro'; there are only two women
left about the place. It would be a nice opportunity for any of his
well-wishers to pay him a visit, if they knew how straight the path was
made before them."
"""
,
"""
"I am none of his well-wishers, sir. I don't care for him."


"Soh! Malone, you are afraid."


"You know me better than that. If I really thought there was a chance
of a row I would go: but Moore is a strange, shy man, whom I never
pretend to understand; and for the sake of his sweet company only I
would not stir a step."


"But there _is_ a chance of a row; if a positive riot does not take
place--of which, indeed, I see no signs--yet it is unlikely this night
will pass quite tranquilly. You know Moor has resolved to have new
machinery, and he expects two wagon-loads of frames and shears from
Stilbro' this evening. Scott, the overlooker, and a few picked men are
gone to fetch them."


"They will bring them in safely and quietly enough, sir."


"Moore says so, and affirms he wants nobody. Some one, however, he must
have, if it were only to bear evidence in case anything should happen. I
call him very careless. He sits in the counting-house with the shutters
unclosed; he goes out here and there after dark, wanders right up the
hollow, down Fieldhead Lane, among the plantations, just as if he were
the darling of the neighbourhood, or--being, as he is, its
detestation--bore a 'charmed life,' as they say in tale-books. He takes
no warning from the fate of Pearson, nor from that of Armitage--shot,
one in his own house and the other on the moor."


"But he should take warning, sir, and use precautions too," interposed
Mr. Sweeting; "and I think he would if he heard what I heard the other
day."


"What did you hear, Davy?"


"You know Mike Hartley, sir?"


"The Antinomian weaver? Yes."


"When Mike has been drinking for a few weeks together, he generally
winds up by a visit to Nunnely vicarage, to tell Mr. Hall a piece of his
mind about his sermons, to denounce the horrible tendency of his
doctrine of works, and warn him that he and all his hearers are sitting
in outer darkness."
"""
,
"""
"Well, that has nothing to do with Moore."


"Besides being an Antinomian, he is a violent Jacobin and leveller,
sir."


"I know. When he is very drunk, his mind is always running on regicide.
Mike is not unacquainted with history, and it is rich to hear him going
over the list of tyrants of whom, as he says, 'the revenger of blood has
obtained satisfaction.' The fellow exults strangely in murder done on
crowned heads or on any head for political reasons. I have already
heard it hinted that he seems to have a queer hankering after Moore. Is
that what you allude to, Sweeting?"


"You use the proper term, sir. Mr. Hall thinks Mike has no personal
hatred of Moore. Mike says he even likes to talk to him and run after
him, but he has a _hankering_ that Moore should be made an example of.
He was extolling him to Mr. Hall the other day as the mill-owner with
the most brains in Yorkshire, and for that reason he affirms Moore
should be chosen as a sacrifice, an oblation of a sweet savour. Is Mike
Hartley in his right mind, do you think, sir?" inquired Sweeting simply.


"Can't tell, Davy. He may be crazed, or he may be only crafty, or
perhaps a little of both."


"He talks of seeing visions, sir."


"Ay! He is a very Ezekiel or Daniel for visions. He came just when I was
going to bed last Friday night to describe one that had been revealed to
him in Nunnely Park that very afternoon."


"Tell it, sir. What was it?" urged Sweeting.


"Davy, thou hast an enormous organ of wonder in thy cranium. Malone, you
see, has none. Neither murders nor visions interest him. See what a big
vacant Saph he looks at this moment."


"Saph! Who was Saph, sir?"


"I thought you would not know. You may find it out. It is biblical. I
know nothing more of him than his name and race; but from a boy upwards
I have always attached a personality to Saph. Depend on it he was
honest, heavy, and luckless. He met his end at Gob by the hand of
Sibbechai."


"But the vision, sir?"
"""
,
"""
"Davy, thou shalt hear. Donne is biting his nails, and Malone yawning,
so I will tell it but to thee. Mike is out of work, like many others,
unfortunately. Mr. Grame, Sir Philip Nunnely's steward, gave him a job
about the priory. According to his account, Mike was busy hedging rather
late in the afternoon, but before dark, when he heard what he thought
was a band at a distance--bugles, fifes, and the sound of a trumpet; it
came from the forest, and he wondered that there should be music there.
He looked up. All amongst the trees he saw moving objects, red, like
poppies, or white, like may-blossom. The wood was full of them; they
poured out and filled the park. He then perceived they were
soldiers--thousands and tens of thousands; but they made no more noise
than a swarm of midges on a summer evening. They formed in order, he
affirmed, and marched, regiment after regiment, across the park. He
followed them to Nunnely Common; the music still played soft and
distant. On the common he watched them go through a number of
evolutions. A man clothed in scarlet stood in the centre and directed
them. They extended, he declared, over fifty acres. They were in sight
half an hour; then they marched away quite silently. The whole time he
heard neither voice nor tread--nothing but the faint music playing a
solemn march."


"Where did they go, sir?"


"Towards Briarfield. Mike followed them. They seemed passing Fieldhead,
when a column of smoke, such as might be vomited by a park of artillery,
spread noiseless over the fields, the road, the common, and rolled, he
said, blue and dim, to his very feet. As it cleared away he looked again
for the soldiers, but they were vanished; he saw them no more. Mike,
like a wise Daniel as he is, not only rehearsed the vision but gave the
interpretation thereof. It signifies, he intimated, bloodshed and civil
conflict."
"""
,
"""
"Do you credit it, sir?" asked Sweeting.


"Do you, Davy?--But come, Malone; why are you not off?"


"I am rather surprised, sir, you did not stay with Moore yourself. You
like this kind of thing."


"So I should have done, had I not unfortunately happened to engage
Boultby to sup with me on his way home from the Bible Society meeting at
Nunnely. I promised to send you as my substitute; for which, by-the-bye,
he did not thank me. He would much rather have had me than you, Peter.
Should there be any real need of help I shall join you. The mill-bell
will give warning. Meantime, go--unless (turning suddenly to Messrs.
Sweeting and Donne)--unless Davy Sweeting or Joseph Donne prefers
going.--What do you say, gentlemen? The commission is an honourable one,
not without the seasoning of a little real peril; for the country is in
a queer state, as you all know, and Moore and his mill and his machinery
are held in sufficient odium. There are chivalric sentiments, there is
high-beating courage, under those waistcoats of yours, I doubt not.
Perhaps I am too partial to my favourite Peter. Little David shall be
the champion, or spotless Joseph.--Malone, you are but a great
floundering Saul after all, good only to lend your armour. Out with your
firearms; fetch your shillelah. It is there--in the corner."


With a significant grin Malone produced his pistols, offering one to
each of his brethren. They were not readily seized on. With graceful
modesty each gentleman retired a step from the presented weapon.


"I never touch them. I never did touch anything of the kind," said Mr.
Donne.


"I am almost a stranger to Mr. Moore," murmured Sweeting.


"If you never touched a pistol, try the feel of it now, great satrap of
Egypt. As to the little minstrel, he probably prefers encountering the
Philistines with no other weapon than his flute.--Get their hats, Peter.
They'll both of 'em go."
"""
,
"""
The sun shone slanting over a spacious park, the undulating ground here
turning a broad lawn towards the beams that silvered every blade of
grass; there, curving away in banks of velvet green; shadowed by the
trees; gnarled old thorns in the holiday suit whence they take their
name, giant's nosegays of horse-chestnuts, mighty elms and stalwart
oaks, singly or in groups, the aristocracy of the place; while in the
background rose wooded coverts, where every tint of early green blended
in rich masses of varied foliage.


An avenue, nearly half a mile in length, consisted of a quadruple range
of splendid lime trees of uniform growth, the side arcades vaulted over
by the meeting branches, and the central road, where the same lights and
shadows were again and again repeated, conducting the eye in diminishing
perspective to a mansion on a broad base of stone steps. Herds of
cattle, horses, and deer, gave animation to the scene, and near
the avenue were a party of village children running about gathering
cowslips, or seated on the grass, devouring substantial plum buns.


Under a lordly elm sat a maiden of about nineteen years; at her feet
a Skye terrier, like a walking door-mat, with a fierce and droll
countenance, and by her side a girl and boy, the one sickly and poorly
clad, the other with bright inquiring eyes, striving to compensate for
the want of other faculties. She was teaching them to form that delight
of childhood, a cowslip ball, the other children supplying her with
handfuls of the gold-coated flowers, and returning a pull of the
forelock or a bobbed curtsey to her smiling thanks.
"""
,
"""
Her dress was of a plain brown-holland looking material, the bonnet she
had thrown off was of the coarsest straw, but her whole air declared
her the daughter of that lordly house; and had gold and rubies been laid
before her instead of cowslips with fairy favours, they would well have
become her princely port, long neck, and stately head, crowned with a
braid of her profuse black hair. That regal look was more remarkable in
her than beauty; her brow was too high, her features not quite regular,
her complexion of gypsy darkness, but with a glow of eyes very large,
black, and deeply set, naturally grave in expression, but just now
beaming and dancing in accordance with the encouraging smiles on her
fresh, healthy, red lips, as her hands, very soft and delicate, though
of large and strong make, completed the ball, threw it in the little
boy's face, and laughed to see his ecstasy over the delicious prize;
teaching him to play with it, tossing it backwards and forwards, shaking
him into animation, and ever and anon chasing her little dog to extract
it from between his teeth.


Suddenly she became aware of the presence of a spectator, and instantly
assuming her bonnet, and drawing up her tall figure, she exclaimed, in a
tone of welcome:


'Oh, Mr. Wingfield, you are come to see our cowslip feast.'


'There seems to be great enjoyment,' replied the young curate, looking,
however, somewhat pre-occupied.


'Look at Charlie Layton,' said she, pointing to the dumb boy. 'That ball
is perfect felicity, he had rather not play with it, the delight is mere
possession.' She was turning to the boy again, when Mr. Wingfield said,
not without hesitation--'You have not heard when to expect your party
from Madeira?'
"""
,
"""
'You know we cannot hear again. They were to sail by the next packet,
and it is uncertain how soon they may arrive.'


'And--and--your brother Arthur. Do you know when he comes home?'


'He promised to come this spring, but I fancy Captain Fitzhugh has
inveigled him somewhere to fish. He never writes, so he may come any
day. But what--is anything the matter?'


'I have a letter here that--which--in Lord Martindale's absence, I
thought it might be better--you might prefer my coming direct to you. I
cannot but think you should be aware'--stammered Mr. Wingfield.


'Well,'--she said, haughtily.


'Here is a letter from my cousin, who has a curacy in the Lake country.
Your brother is at Wrangerton, the next town.'


'Arthur is well?' cried she, starting.


'Yes, yes, you need not be alarmed, but I am afraid there is some
entanglement. There are some Miss Mosses--'


'Oh, it is that kind of thing!' said she, in an altered tone, her cheeks
glowing; 'it is very silly of him to get himself talked about; but of
course it is all nothing.'


'I wish I could think so,' said Mr. Wingfield; 'but, indeed, Miss
Martindale,' for she was returning to the children, 'I am afraid it is a
serious matter. The father is a designing person.'


'Arthur will not be taken in,' was her first calm answer; but perceiving
the curate unconvinced, though unwilling to contradict, she added, 'But
what is the story?'


Mr. Wingfield produced the letter and read; 'Fanshawe, the curate of
Wrangerton, has just been with me, telling me his rector is in much
difficulty and perplexity about a son of your parishioner, Lord
Martindale. He came to Wrangerton with another guardsman for the sake
of the fishing, and has been drawn into an engagement with one of the
daughters of old Moss, who manages the St. Erme property. I know nothing
against the young ladies, indeed Fanshawe speaks highly of them; but the
father is a disreputable sort of attorney, who has taken advantage of
Lord St. Erme's absence and neglect to make a prey of the estate. The
marriage is to take place immediately, and poor Mr. Jones is in much
distress at the dread of being asked to perform the ceremony, without
the consent of the young man's family.'
"""
,
"""
'He cannot do it,' exclaimed the young lady; 'you had better write and
tell him so.'


'I am afraid,' said Mr. Wingfield, diffidently, 'I am afraid he has no
power to refuse.'


'Not in such a case as this? It is his duty to put a stop to it.'


'All that is in his power he will do, no doubt, by reasoning and
remonstrance; but you must remember that your brother is of age, and if
the young lady's parents consent, Mr. Jones has no choice.'


'I could not have believed it! However, it will not come to that: it is
only the old rector's fancy. To make everything secure I will write to
my brother, and we shall soon see him here.'


'There is still an hour before post-time,' said Mr. Wingfield; 'shall I
send the children home?'


'No, poor little things, let them finish their game. Thank you for
coming to me. My aunt will, I hope, hear nothing of it. Good evening.'


Calling an elder girl, she gave some directions; and Mr. Wingfield
watched her walking down the avenue with a light-footed but decided and
characteristic tread, expressing in every step, 'Where I am going, there
I will go, and nothing shall stop me.'


'Nonsense!' she said to herself; 'Arthur cannot be so lost to the sense
of everything becoming. Such pain cannot be in store for me! Anything
else I could bear; but this must not, cannot, shall not be. Arthur is
all I have; I cannot spare him; and to see him shipwrecked on a low-bred
designing creature would be too much misery. Impossible--so clear-headed
as he is, so fastidious about women! And yet this letter spoke
decidedly. People talk of love! and Arthur is so easy, he would let
himself be drawn on rather than make a disturbance. He might be ensnared
with his eyes open, because he disliked the trouble of breaking loose,
and so would not think of the consequence. 
"""
,
"""
Nothing could save him so well as some one going to him. He can read a letter or not as he
chooses. Oh, if papa were at home--oh, if Mr. Wingfield were but Percy
Fotheringham--he who fears no man, and can manage any one! Oh! if I
could go myself; he heeds me when he heeds no one else. Shall I go? Why
not? It would save him; it would be the only effectual way. Let me see.
I would take Simmonds and Pauline. But then I must explain to my
aunt. Stuff! there are real interests at stake! Suppose this is
exaggeration--why, then, I should be ridiculous, and Arthur would never
forget it. Besides, I believe I cannot get there in one day--certainly
not return the same. I must give way to conventionalities, and be a
helpless young lady.'


She reached the house, and quickly dashed off her letter:--




'My Dear Arthur,--I hope and trust this letter may be quite uncalled
for, though I feel it my duty to write it. I used to have some influence
with you, and I should think that anything that reminded you of home
would make you pause.


'Report has of course outrun the truth. It is impossible you should be
on the brink of marriage without letting us know--as much so, I should
trust, as your seriously contemplating an engagement with one beneath
your notice. I dare say you find it very pleasant to amuse yourself; but
consider, before you allow yourself to form an attachment--I will not
say before becoming a victim to sordid speculation. You know what poor
John has gone through, though there was no inferiority there. Think what
you would have to bear for the sake, perhaps, of a pretty face, but of a
person incapable of being a companion or comfort, and whom you would be
ashamed to see beside your own family. Or, supposing your own affections
untouched, what right have you to trifle with the feelings of a poor
girl, and raise expectations you cannot and ought not to fulfil? You are
too kind, when once you reflect, to inflict such pain, you, who cannot
help being loved. Come away while it is time; come home, and have the
merit of self-sacrifice. If your fancy is smitten, it will recover
in its proper sphere. If it costs you pain, you know to whom you have
always hitherto turned in your vexations. Dear Arthur, do not ruin
yourself; only come back to me. Write at once; I cannot bear the
suspense.
"""
,
"""
The Brangwens had lived for generations on the Marsh Farm, in
the meadows where the Erewash twisted sluggishly through alder
trees, separating Derbyshire from Nottinghamshire. Two miles
away, a church-tower stood on a hill, the houses of the little
country town climbing assiduously up to it. Whenever one of the
Brangwens in the fields lifted his head from his work, he saw
the church-tower at Ilkeston in the empty sky. So that as he
turned again to the horizontal land, he was aware of something
standing above him and beyond him in the distance.


There was a look in the eyes of the Brangwens as if they were
expecting something unknown, about which they were eager. They
had that air of readiness for what would come to them, a kind of
surety, an expectancy, the look of an inheritor.


They were fresh, blond, slow-speaking people, revealing
themselves plainly, but slowly, so that one could watch the
change in their eyes from laughter to anger, blue, lit-up
laughter, to a hard blue-staring anger; through all the
irresolute stages of the sky when the weather is changing.


Living on rich land, on their own land, near to a growing
town, they had forgotten what it was to be in straitened
circumstances. They had never become rich, because there were
always children, and the patrimony was divided every time. But
always, at the Marsh, there was ample.


So the Brangwens came and went without fear of necessity,
working hard because of the life that was in them, not for want
of the money. Neither were they thriftless. They were aware of
the last halfpenny, and instinct made them not waste the peeling
of their apple, for it would help to feed the cattle. But heaven
and earth was teeming around them, and how should this cease?
"""
,
"""
They felt the rush of the sap in spring, they knew the wave
which cannot halt, but every year throws forward the seed to
begetting, and, falling back, leaves the young-born on the
earth. They knew the intercourse between heaven and earth,
sunshine drawn into the breast and bowels, the rain sucked up in
the daytime, nakedness that comes under the wind in autumn,
showing the birds' nests no longer worth hiding. Their life and
interrelations were such; feeling the pulse and body of the
soil, that opened to their furrow for the grain, and became
smooth and supple after their ploughing, and clung to their feet
with a weight that pulled like desire, lying hard and
unresponsive when the crops were to be shorn away. The young
corn waved and was silken, and the lustre slid along the limbs
of the men who saw it. They took the udder of the cows, the cows
yielded milk and pulse against the hands of the men, the pulse
of the blood of the teats of the cows beat into the pulse of the
hands of the men. They mounted their horses, and held life
between the grip of their knees, they harnessed their horses at
the wagon, and, with hand on the bridle-rings, drew the heaving
of the horses after their will.


In autumn the partridges whirred up, birds in flocks blew
like spray across the fallow, rooks appeared on the grey, watery
heavens, and flew cawing into the winter. Then the men sat by
the fire in the house where the women moved about with surety,
and the limbs and the body of the men were impregnated with the
day, cattle and earth and vegetation and the sky, the men sat by
the fire and their brains were inert, as their blood flowed
heavy with the accumulation from the living day.
"""
,
"""
The women were different. On them too was the drowse of
blood-intimacy, calves sucking and hens running together in
droves, and young geese palpitating in the hand while the food
was pushed down their throttle. But the women looked out from
the heated, blind intercourse of farm-life, to the spoken world
beyond. They were aware of the lips and the mind of the world
speaking and giving utterance, they heard the sound in the
distance, and they strained to listen.


It was enough for the men, that the earth heaved and opened
its furrow to them, that the wind blew to dry the wet wheat, and
set the young ears of corn wheeling freshly round about; it was
enough that they helped the cow in labour, or ferreted the rats
from under the barn, or broke the back of a rabbit with a sharp
knock of the hand. So much warmth and generating and pain and
death did they know in their blood, earth and sky and beast and
green plants, so much exchange and interchange they had with
these, that they lived full and surcharged, their senses full
fed, their faces always turned to the heat of the blood, staring
into the sun, dazed with looking towards the source of
generation, unable to turn round.


But the woman wanted another form of life than this,
something that was not blood-intimacy. Her house faced out from
the farm-buildings and fields, looked out to the road and the
village with church and Hall and the world beyond. She stood to
see the far-off world of cities and governments and the active
scope of man, the magic land to her, where secrets were made
known and desires fulfilled. She faced outwards to where men
moved dominant and creative, having turned their back on the
pulsing heat of creation, and with this behind them, were set
out to discover what was beyond, to enlarge their own scope and
range and freedom; whereas the Brangwen men faced inwards to the
teeming life of creation, which poured unresolved into their
veins.
"""
,
"""
Looking out, as she must, from the front of her house towards
the activity of man in the world at large, whilst her husband
looked out to the back at sky and harvest and beast and land,
she strained her eyes to see what man had done in fighting
outwards to knowledge, she strained to hear how he uttered
himself in his conquest, her deepest desire hung on the battle
that she heard, far off, being waged on the edge of the unknown.
She also wanted to know, and to be of the fighting host.


At home, even so near as Cossethay, was the vicar, who spoke
the other, magic language, and had the other, finer bearing,
both of which she could perceive, but could never attain to. The
vicar moved in worlds beyond where her own menfolk existed. Did
she not know her own menfolk: fresh, slow, full-built men,
masterful enough, but easy, native to the earth, lacking
outwardness and range of motion. Whereas the vicar, dark and dry
and small beside her husband, had yet a quickness and a range of
being that made Brangwen, in his large geniality, seem dull and
local. She knew her husband. But in the vicar's nature was that
which passed beyond her knowledge. As Brangwen had power over
the cattle so the vicar had power over her husband. What was it
in the vicar, that raised him above the common men as man is
raised above the beast? She craved to know. She craved to
achieve this higher being, if not in herself, then in her
children. That which makes a man strong even if he be little and
frail in body, just as any man is little and frail beside a
bull, and yet stronger than the bull, what was it? It was not
money nor power nor position. What power had the vicar over Tom
Brangwen--none. Yet strip them and set them on a desert
island, and the vicar was the master. His soul was master of the
other man's. And why--why? She decided it was a question of
knowledge.
"""
,
"""
The curate was poor enough, and not very efficacious as a
man, either, yet he took rank with those others, the superior.
She watched his children being born, she saw them running as
tiny things beside their mother. And already they were separate
from her own children, distinct. Why were her own children
marked below the others? Why should the curate's children
inevitably take precedence over her children, why should
dominance be given them from the start? It was not money, nor
even class. It was education and experience, she decided.


It was this, this education, this higher form of being, that
the mother wished to give to her children, so that they too
could live the supreme life on earth. For her children, at least
the children of her heart, had the complete nature that should
take place in equality with the living, vital people in the
land, not be left behind obscure among the labourers. Why must
they remain obscured and stifled all their lives, why should
they suffer from lack of freedom to move? How should they learn
the entry into the finer, more vivid circle of life?


Her imagination was fired by the squire's lady at Shelly
Hall, who came to church at Cossethay with her little children,
girls in tidy capes of beaver fur, and smart little hats,
herself like a winter rose, so fair and delicate. So fair, so
fine in mould, so luminous, what was it that Mrs. Hardy felt
which she, Mrs. Brangwen, did not feel? How was Mrs. Hardy's
nature different from that of the common women of Cossethay, in
what was it beyond them? All the women of Cossethay talked
eagerly about Mrs. Hardy, of her husband, her children, her
guests, her dress, of her servants and her housekeeping. The
lady of the Hall was the living dream of their lives, her life
was the epic that inspired their lives. In her they lived
imaginatively, and in gossiping of her husband who drank, of her
scandalous brother, of Lord William Bentley her friend, member
of Parliament for the division, they had their own Odyssey
enacting itself, Penelope and Ulysses before them, and Circe and
the swine and the endless web.
"""
,
"""
So the women of the village were fortunate. They saw
themselves in the lady of the manor, each of them lived her own
fulfilment of the life of Mrs. Hardy. And the Brangwen wife of
the Marsh aspired beyond herself, towards the further life of
the finer woman, towards the extended being she revealed, as a
traveller in his self-contained manner reveals far-off countries
present in himself. But why should a knowledge of far-off
countries make a man's life a different thing, finer, bigger?
And why is a man more than the beast and the cattle that serve
him? It is the same thing.


The male part of the poem was filled in by such men as the
vicar and Lord William, lean, eager men with strange movements,
men who had command of the further fields, whose lives ranged
over a great extent. Ah, it was something very desirable to
know, this touch of the wonderful men who had the power of
thought and comprehension. The women of the village might be
much fonder of Tom Brangwen, and more at their ease with him,
yet if their lives had been robbed of the vicar, and of Lord
William, the leading shoot would have been cut away from them,
they would have been heavy and uninspired and inclined to hate.
So long as the wonder of the beyond was before them, they could
get along, whatever their lot. And Mrs. Hardy, and the vicar,
and Lord William, these moved in the wonder of the beyond, and
were visible to the eyes of Cossethay in their motion.
"""
,
"""
About 1840, a canal was constructed across the meadows of the
Marsh Farm, connecting the newly-opened collieries of the
Erewash Valley. A high embankment travelled along the fields to
carry the canal, which passed close to the homestead, and,
reaching the road, went over in a heavy bridge.


So the Marsh was shut off from Ilkeston, and enclosed in the
small valley bed, which ended in a bushy hill and the village
spire of Cossethay.


The Brangwens received a fair sum of money from this trespass
across their land. Then, a short time afterwards, a colliery was
sunk on the other side of the canal, and in a while the Midland
Railway came down the valley at the foot of the Ilkeston hill,
and the invasion was complete. The town grew rapidly, the
Brangwens were kept busy producing supplies, they became richer,
they were almost tradesmen.


Still the Marsh remained remote and original, on the old,
quiet side of the canal embankment, in the sunny valley where
slow water wound along in company of stiff alders, and the road
went under ash-trees past the Brangwens' garden gate.


But, looking from the garden gate down the road to the right,
there, through the dark archway of the canal's square aqueduct,
was a colliery spinning away in the near distance, and further,
red, crude houses plastered on the valley in masses, and beyond
all, the dim smoking hill of the town.


The homestead was just on the safe side of civilization,
outside the gate. The house stood bare from the road, approached
by a straight garden path, along which at spring the daffodils
were thick in green and yellow. At the sides of the house were
bushes of lilac and guelder-rose and privet, entirely hiding the
farm buildings behind.
"""
,
"""
At the back a confusion of sheds spread into the home-close
from out of two or three indistinct yards. The duck-pond lay
beyond the furthest wall, littering its white feathers on the
padded earthen banks, blowing its stray soiled feathers into the
grass and the gorse bushes below the canal embankment, which
rose like a high rampart near at hand, so that occasionally a
man's figure passed in silhouette, or a man and a towing horse
traversed the sky.


At first the Brangwens were astonished by all this commotion
around them. The building of a canal across their land made them
strangers in their own place, this raw bank of earth shutting
them off disconcerted them. As they worked in the fields, from
beyond the now familiar embankment came the rhythmic run of the
winding engines, startling at first, but afterwards a narcotic
to the brain. Then the shrill whistle of the trains re-echoed
through the heart, with fearsome pleasure, announcing the
far-off come near and imminent.


As they drove home from town, the farmers of the land met the
blackened colliers trooping from the pit-mouth. As they gathered
the harvest, the west wind brought a faint, sulphurous smell of
pit-refuse burning. As they pulled the turnips in November, the
sharp clink-clink-clink-clink-clink of empty trucks shunting on
the line, vibrated in their hearts with the fact of other
activity going on beyond them.


The Alfred Brangwen of this period had married a woman from
Heanor, a daughter of the "Black Horse". She was a slim, pretty,
dark woman, quaint in her speech, whimsical, so that the sharp
things she said did not hurt. She was oddly a thing to herself,
rather querulous in her manner, but intrinsically separate and
indifferent, so that her long lamentable complaints, when she
raised her voice against her husband in particular and against
everybody else after him, only made those who heard her wonder
and feel affectionately towards her, even while they were
irritated and impatient with her. She railed long and loud about
her husband, but always with a balanced, easy-flying voice and a
quaint manner of speech that warmed his belly with pride and
male triumph while he scowled with mortification at the things
she said.
"""
,
"""
Consequently Brangwen himself had a humorous puckering at the
eyes, a sort of fat laugh, very quiet and full, and he was
spoilt like a lord of creation. He calmly did as he liked,
laughed at their railing, excused himself in a teasing tone that
she loved, followed his natural inclinations, and sometimes,
pricked too near the quick, frightened and broke her by a deep,
tense fury which seemed to fix on him and hold him for days, and
which she would give anything to placate in him. They were two
very separate beings, vitally connected, knowing nothing of each
other, yet living in their separate ways from one root.


There were four sons and two daughters. The eldest boy ran
away early to sea, and did not come back. After this the mother
was more the node and centre of attraction in the home. The
second boy, Alfred, whom the mother admired most, was the most
reserved. He was sent to school in Ilkeston and made some
progress. But in spite of his dogged, yearning effort, he could
not get beyond the rudiments of anything, save of drawing. At
this, in which he had some power, he worked, as if it were his
hope. After much grumbling and savage rebellion against
everything, after much trying and shifting about, when his
father was incensed against him and his mother almost
despairing, he became a draughtsman in a lace-factory in
Nottingham.


He remained heavy and somewhat uncouth, speaking with broad
Derbyshire accent, adhering with all his tenacity to his work
and to his town position, making good designs, and becoming
fairly well-off. But at drawing, his hand swung naturally in
big, bold lines, rather lax, so that it was cruel for him to
pedgill away at the lace designing, working from the tiny
squares of his paper, counting and plotting and niggling. He did
it stubbornly, with anguish, crushing the bowels within him,
adhering to his chosen lot whatever it should cost. And he came
back into life set and rigid, a rare-spoken, almost surly
man.
"""
,
"""
He married the daughter of a chemist, who affected some
social superiority, and he became something of a snob, in his
dogged fashion, with a passion for outward refinement in the
household, mad when anything clumsy or gross occurred. Later,
when his three children were growing up, and he seemed a staid,
almost middle-aged man, he turned after strange women, and
became a silent, inscrutable follower of forbidden pleasure,
neglecting his indignant bourgeois wife without a qualm.


Frank, the third son, refused from the first to have anything
to do with learning. From the first he hung round the
slaughter-house which stood away in the third yard at the back
of the farm. The Brangwens had always killed their own meat, and
supplied the neighbourhood. Out of this grew a regular butcher's
business in connection with the farm.


As a child Frank had been drawn by the trickle of dark blood
that ran across the pavement from the slaughter-house to the
crew-yard, by the sight of the man carrying across to the
meat-shed a huge side of beef, with the kidneys showing,
embedded in their heavy laps of fat.


He was a handsome lad with soft brown hair and regular
features something like a later Roman youth. He was more easily
excitable, more readily carried away than the rest, weaker in
character. At eighteen he married a little factory girl, a pale,
plump, quiet thing with sly eyes and a wheedling voice, who
insinuated herself into him and bore him a child every year and
made a fool of him. When he had taken over the butchery
business, already a growing callousness to it, and a sort of
contempt made him neglectful of it. He drank, and was often to
be found in his public house blathering away as if he knew
everything, when in reality he was a noisy fool.
"""
,
"""
Of the daughters, Alice, the elder, married a collier and
lived for a time stormily in Ilkeston, before moving away to
Yorkshire with her numerous young family. Effie, the younger,
remained at home.


The last child, Tom, was considerably younger than his
brothers, so had belonged rather to the company of his sisters.
He was his mother's favourite. She roused herself to
determination, and sent him forcibly away to a grammar-school in
Derby when he was twelve years old. He did not want to go, and
his father would have given way, but Mrs. Brangwen had set her
heart on it. Her slender, pretty, tightly-covered body, with
full skirts, was now the centre of resolution in the house, and
when she had once set upon anything, which was not often, the
family failed before her.


So Tom went to school, an unwilling failure from the first.
He believed his mother was right in decreeing school for him,
but he knew she was only right because she would not acknowledge
his constitution. He knew, with a child's deep, instinctive
foreknowledge of what is going to happen to him, that he would
cut a sorry figure at school. But he took the infliction as
inevitable, as if he were guilty of his own nature, as if his
being were wrong, and his mother's conception right. If he could
have been what he liked, he would have been that which his
mother fondly but deludedly hoped he was. He would have been
clever, and capable of becoming a gentleman. It was her
aspiration for him, therefore he knew it as the true aspiration
for any boy. But you can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear,
as he told his mother very early, with regard to himself; much
to her mortification and chagrin.
"""
,
"""
When he got to school, he made a violent struggle against his
physical inability to study. He sat gripped, making himself pale
and ghastly in his effort to concentrate on the book, to take in
what he had to learn. But it was no good. If he beat down his
first repulsion, and got like a suicide to the stuff, he went
very little further. He could not learn deliberately. His mind
simply did not work.


In feeling he was developed, sensitive to the atmosphere
around him, brutal perhaps, but at the same time delicate, very
delicate. So he had a low opinion of himself. He knew his own
limitation. He knew that his brain was a slow hopeless
good-for-nothing. So he was humble.


But at the same time his feelings were more discriminating
than those of most of the boys, and he was confused. He was more
sensuously developed, more refined in instinct than they. For
their mechanical stupidity he hated them, and suffered cruel
contempt for them. But when it came to mental things, then he
was at a disadvantage. He was at their mercy. He was a fool. He
had not the power to controvert even the most stupid argument,
so that he was forced to admit things he did not in the least
believe. And having admitted them, he did not know whether he
believed them or not; he rather thought he did.


But he loved anyone who could convey enlightenment to him
through feeling. He sat betrayed with emotion when the teacher
of literature read, in a moving fashion, Tennyson's "Ulysses",
or Shelley's "Ode to the West Wind". His lips parted, his eyes
filled with a strained, almost suffering light. And the teacher
read on, fired by his power over the boy. Tom Brangwen was moved
by this experience beyond all calculation, he almost dreaded it,
it was so deep. 
"""
,
"""
But when, almost secretly and shamefully, he
came to take the book himself, and began the words "Oh wild west
wind, thou breath of autumn's being," the very fact of the print
caused a prickly sensation of repulsion to go over his skin, the
blood came to his face, his heart filled with a bursting passion
of rage and incompetence. He threw the book down and walked over
it and went out to the cricket field. And he hated books as if
they were his enemies. He hated them worse than ever he hated
any person.


He could not voluntarily control his attention. His mind had
no fixed habits to go by, he had nothing to get hold of, nowhere
to start from. For him there was nothing palpable, nothing known
in himself, that he could apply to learning. He did not know how
to begin. Therefore he was helpless when it came to deliberate
understanding or deliberate learning.


He had an instinct for mathematics, but if this failed him,
he was helpless as an idiot. So that he felt that the ground was
never sure under his feet, he was nowhere. His final downfall
was his complete inability to attend to a question put without
suggestion. If he had to write a formal composition on the Army,
he did at last learn to repeat the few facts he knew: "You can
join the army at eighteen. You have to be over five foot eight."
But he had all the time a living conviction that this was a
dodge and that his common-places were beneath contempt. Then he
reddened furiously, felt his bowels sink with shame, scratched
out what he had written, made an agonized effort to think of
something in the real composition style, failed, became sullen
with rage and humiliation, put the pen down and would have been
torn to pieces rather than attempt to write another word.
"""
,
"""
He soon got used to the Grammar School, and the Grammar
School got used to him, setting him down as a hopeless duffer at
learning, but respecting him for a generous, honest nature. Only
one narrow, domineering fellow, the Latin master, bullied him
and made the blue eyes mad with shame and rage. There was a
horrid scene, when the boy laid open the master's head with a
slate, and then things went on as before. The teacher got little
sympathy. But Brangwen winced and could not bear to think of the
deed, not even long after, when he was a grown man.


He was glad to leave school. It had not been unpleasant, he
had enjoyed the companionship of the other youths, or had
thought he enjoyed it, the time had passed very quickly, in
endless activity. But he knew all the time that he was in an
ignominious position, in this place of learning. He was aware of
failure all the while, of incapacity. But he was too healthy and
sanguine to be wretched, he was too much alive. Yet his soul was
wretched almost to hopelessness.


He had loved one warm, clever boy who was frail in body, a
consumptive type. The two had had an almost classic friendship,
David and Jonathan, wherein Brangwen was the Jonathan, the
server. But he had never felt equal with his friend, because the
other's mind outpaced his, and left him ashamed, far in the
rear. So the two boys went at once apart on leaving school. But
Brangwen always remembered his friend that had been, kept him as
a sort of light, a fine experience to remember.
"""
,
"""
Tom Brangwen was glad to get back to the farm, where he was
in his own again. "I have got a turnip on my shoulders, let me
stick to th' fallow," he said to his exasperated mother. He had
too low an opinion of himself. But he went about at his work on
the farm gladly enough, glad of the active labour and the smell
of the land again, having youth and vigour and humour, and a
comic wit, having the will and the power to forget his own
shortcomings, finding himself violent with occasional rages, but
usually on good terms with everybody and everything.


When he was seventeen, his father fell from a stack and broke
his neck. Then the mother and son and daughter lived on at the
farm, interrupted by occasional loud-mouthed lamenting,
jealous-spirited visitations from the butcher Frank, who had a
grievance against the world, which he felt was always giving him
less than his dues. Frank was particularly against the young
Tom, whom he called a mardy baby, and Tom returned the hatred
violently, his face growing red and his blue eyes staring. Effie
sided with Tom against Frank. But when Alfred came, from
Nottingham, heavy jowled and lowering, speaking very little, but
treating those at home with some contempt, Effie and the mother
sided with him and put Tom into the shade. It irritated the
youth that his elder brother should be made something of a hero
by the women, just because he didn't live at home and was a
lace-designer and almost a gentleman. But Alfred was something
of a Prometheus Bound, so the women loved him. Tom came later to
understand his brother better.


As youngest son, Tom felt some importance when the care of
the farm devolved on to him. He was only eighteen, but he was
quite capable of doing everything his father had done. And of
course, his mother remained as centre to the house.
"""
,
"""
The young man grew up very fresh and alert, with zest for
every moment of life. He worked and rode and drove to market, he
went out with companions and got tipsy occasionally and played
skittles and went to the little travelling theatres. Once, when
he was drunk at a public house, he went upstairs with a
prostitute who seduced him. He was then nineteen.


The thing was something of a shock to him. In the close
intimacy of the farm kitchen, the woman occupied the supreme
position. The men deferred to her in the house, on all household
points, on all points of morality and behaviour. The woman was
the symbol for that further life which comprised religion and
love and morality. The men placed in her hands their own
conscience, they said to her "Be my conscience-keeper, be the
angel at the doorway guarding my outgoing and my incoming." And
the woman fulfilled her trust, the men rested implicitly in her,
receiving her praise or her blame with pleasure or with anger,
rebelling and storming, but never for a moment really escaping
in their own souls from her prerogative. They depended on her
for their stability. Without her, they would have felt like
straws in the wind, to be blown hither and thither at random.
She was the anchor and the security, she was the restraining
hand of God, at times highly to be execrated.


Now when Tom Brangwen, at nineteen, a youth fresh like a
plant, rooted in his mother and his sister, found that he had
lain with a prostitute woman in a common public house, he was
very much startled. For him there was until that time only one
kind of woman--his mother and sister.
"""
,
"""
But now? He did not know what to feel. There was a slight
wonder, a pang of anger, of disappointment, a first taste of ash
and of cold fear lest this was all that would happen, lest his
relations with woman were going to be no more than this
nothingness; there was a slight sense of shame before the
prostitute, fear that she would despise him for his
inefficiency; there was a cold distaste for her, and a fear of
her; there was a moment of paralyzed horror when he felt he
might have taken a disease from her; and upon all this startled
tumult of emotion, was laid the steadying hand of common sense,
which said it did not matter very much, so long as he had no
disease. He soon recovered balance, and really it did not matter
so very much.


But it had shocked him, and put a mistrust into his heart,
and emphasized his fear of what was within himself. He was,
however, in a few days going about again in his own careless,
happy-go-lucky fashion, his blue eyes just as clear and honest
as ever, his face just as fresh, his appetite just as keen.


Or apparently so. He had, in fact, lost some of his buoyant
confidence, and doubt hindered his outgoing.


For some time after this, he was quieter, more conscious when
he drank, more backward from companionship. The disillusion of
his first carnal contact with woman, strengthened by his innate
desire to find in a woman the embodiment of all his
inarticulate, powerful religious impulses, put a bit in his
mouth. He had something to lose which he was afraid of losing,
which he was not sure even of possessing. This first affair did
not matter much: but the business of love was, at the bottom of
his soul, the most serious and terrifying of all to him.
"""
,
"""
He was tormented now with sex desire, his imagination
reverted always to lustful scenes. But what really prevented his
returning to a loose woman, over and above the natural
squeamishness, was the recollection of the paucity of the last
experience. It had been so nothing, so dribbling and functional,
that he was ashamed to expose himself to the risk of a
repetition of it.


He made a strong, instinctive fight to retain his native
cheerfulness unimpaired. He had naturally a plentiful stream of
life and humour, a sense of sufficiency and exuberance, giving
ease. But now it tended to cause tension. A strained light came
into his eyes, he had a slight knitting of the brows. His
boisterous humour gave place to lowering silences, and days
passed by in a sort of suspense.


He did not know there was any difference in him, exactly; for
the most part he was filled with slow anger and resentment. But
he knew he was always thinking of women, or a woman, day in, day
out, and that infuriated him. He could not get free: and he was
ashamed. He had one or two sweethearts, starting with them in
the hope of speedy development. But when he had a nice girl, he
found that he was incapable of pushing the desired development.
The very presence of the girl beside him made it impossible. He
could not think of her like that, he could not think of her
actual nakedness. She was a girl and he liked her, and dreaded
violently even the thought of uncovering her. He knew that, in
these last issues of nakedness, he did not exist to her nor she
to him. Again, if he had a loose girl, and things began to
develop, she offended him so deeply all the time, that he never
knew whether he was going to get away from her as quickly as
possible, or whether he were going to take her out of inflamed
necessity. Again he learnt his lesson: if he took her it was a
paucity which he was forced to despise. He did not despise
himself nor the girl. But he despised the net result in him of
the experience--he despised it deeply and bitterly.
"""
,
"""
Then, when he was twenty-three, his mother died, and he was
left at home with Effie. His mother's death was another blow out
of the dark. He could not understand it, he knew it was no good
his trying. One had to submit to these unforeseen blows that
come unawares and leave a bruise that remains and hurts whenever
it is touched. He began to be afraid of all that which was up
against him. He had loved his mother.


After this, Effie and he quarrelled fiercely. They meant a
very great deal to each other, but they were both under a
strange, unnatural tension. He stayed out of the house as much
as possible. He got a special corner for himself at the "Red
Lion" at Cossethay, and became a usual figure by the fire, a
fresh, fair young fellow with heavy limbs and head held back,
mostly silent, though alert and attentive, very hearty in his
greeting of everybody he knew, shy of strangers. He teased all
the women, who liked him extremely, and he was very attentive to
the talk of the men, very respectful.


To drink made him quickly flush very red in the face, and
brought out the look of self-consciousness and unsureness,
almost bewilderment, in his blue eyes. When he came home in this
state of tipsy confusion his sister hated him and abused him,
and he went off his head, like a mad bull with rage.


He had still another turn with a light-o'-love. One
Whitsuntide he went a jaunt with two other young fellows, on
horseback, to Matlock and thence to Bakewell. Matlock was at
that time just becoming a famous beauty-spot, visited from
Manchester and from the Staffordshire towns. In the hotel where
the young men took lunch, were two girls, and the parties struck
up a friendship.
"""
,
"""
The Miss who made up to Tom Brangwen, then twenty-four years
old, was a handsome, reckless girl neglected for an afternoon by
the man who had brought her out. She saw Brangwen and liked him,
as all women did, for his warmth and his generous nature, and
for the innate delicacy in him. But she saw he was one who would
have to be brought to the scratch. However, she was roused and
unsatisfied and made mischievous, so she dared anything. It
would be an easy interlude, restoring her pride.


She was a handsome girl with a bosom, and dark hair and blue
eyes, a girl full of easy laughter, flushed from the sun,
inclined to wipe her laughing face in a very natural and taking
manner.


Brangwen was in a state of wonder. He treated her with his
chaffing deference, roused, but very unsure of himself, afraid
to death of being too forward, ashamed lest he might be thought
backward, mad with desire yet restrained by instinctive regard
for women from making any definite approach, feeling all the
while that his attitude was ridiculous, and flushing deep with
confusion. She, however, became hard and daring as he became
confused, it amused her to see him come on.


"When must you get back?" she asked.


"I'm not particular," he said.


There the conversation again broke down.


Brangwen's companions were ready to go on.


"Art commin', Tom," they called, "or art for stoppin'?"


"Ay, I'm commin'," he replied, rising reluctantly, an angry
sense of futility and disappointment spreading over him.


He met the full, almost taunting look of the girl, and he
trembled with unusedness.


"Shall you come an' have a look at my mare," he said to her,
with his hearty kindliness that was now shaken with
trepidation.


"Oh, I should like to," she said, rising.
"""
,
"""
And she followed him, his rather sloping shoulders and his
cloth riding-gaiters, out of the room. The young men got their
own horses out of the stable.


"Can you ride?" Brangwen asked her.


"I should like to if I could--I have never tried," she
said.


"Come then, an' have a try," he said.


And he lifted her, he blushing, she laughing, into the
saddle.


"I s'll slip off--it's not a lady's saddle," she
cried.


"Hold yer tight," he said, and he led her out of the hotel
gate.


The girl sat very insecurely, clinging fast. He put a hand on
her waist, to support her. And he held her closely, he clasped
her as in an embrace, he was weak with desire as he strode
beside her.


The horse walked by the river.


"You want to sit straddle-leg," he said to her.


"I know I do," she said.


It was the time of very full skirts. She managed to get
astride the horse, quite decently, showing an intent concern for
covering her pretty leg.


"It's a lot's better this road," she said, looking down at
him.


"Ay, it is," he said, feeling the marrow melt in his bones
from the look in her eyes. "I dunno why they have that
side-saddle business, twistin' a woman in two."


"Should us leave you then--you seem to be fixed up
there?" called Brangwen's companions from the road.


He went red with anger.


"Ay--don't worry," he called back.


"How long are yer stoppin'?" they asked.


"Not after Christmas," he said.


And the girl gave a tinkling peal of laughter.


"All right--by-bye!" called his friends.


And they cantered off, leaving him very flushed, trying to be
quite normal with the girl. But presently he had gone back to
the hotel and given his horse into the charge of an ostler and
had gone off with the girl into the woods, not quite knowing
where he was or what he was doing. His heart thumped and he
thought it the most glorious adventure, and was mad with desire
for the girl.
"""
,
"""
Afterwards he glowed with pleasure. By Jove, but that was
something like! He [stayed the afternoon with the girl, and]
wanted to stay the night. She, however, told him this was impossible:
her own man would be back by dark, and she must be with him.
He, Brangwen, must not let on that there had been anything
between them.


She gave him an intimate smile, which made him feel confused
and gratified.


He could not tear himself away, though he had promised not to
interfere with the girl. He stayed on at the hotel over night.
He saw the other fellow at the evening meal: a small,
middle-aged man with iron-grey hair and a curious face, like a
monkey's, but interesting, in its way almost beautiful. Brangwen
guessed that he was a foreigner. He was in company with another,
an Englishman, dry and hard. The four sat at table, two men and
two women. Brangwen watched with all his eyes.


He saw how the foreigner treated the women with courteous
contempt, as if they were pleasing animals. Brangwen's girl had
put on a ladylike manner, but her voice betrayed her. She wanted
to win back her man. When dessert came on, however, the little
foreigner turned round from his table and calmly surveyed the
room, like one unoccupied. Brangwen marvelled over the cold,
animal intelligence of the face. The brown eyes were round,
showing all the brown pupil, like a monkey's, and just calmly
looking, perceiving the other person without referring to him at
all. They rested on Brangwen. The latter marvelled at the old
face turned round on him, looking at him without considering it
necessary to know him at all. The eyebrows of the round,
perceiving, but unconcerned eyes were rather high up, with
slight wrinkles above them, just as a monkey's had. It was an
old, ageless face.
"""
,
"""
The man was most amazingly a gentleman all the time, an
aristocrat. Brangwen stared fascinated. The girl was pushing her
crumbs about on the cloth, uneasily, flushed and angry.


As Brangwen sat motionless in the hall afterwards, too much
moved and lost to know what to do, the little stranger came up
to him with a beautiful smile and manner, offering a cigarette
and saying:


"Will you smoke?"


Brangwen never smoked cigarettes, yet he took the one
offered, fumbling painfully with thick fingers, blushing to the
roots of his hair. Then he looked with his warm blue eyes at the
almost sardonic, lidded eyes of the foreigner. The latter sat
down beside him, and they began to talk, chiefly of horses.


Brangwen loved the other man for his exquisite graciousness,
for his tact and reserve, and for his ageless, monkey-like
self-surety. They talked of horses, and of Derbyshire, and of
farming. The stranger warmed to the young fellow with real
warmth, and Brangwen was excited. He was transported at meeting
this odd, middle-aged, dry-skinned man, personally. The talk was
pleasant, but that did not matter so much. It was the gracious
manner, the fine contact that was all.


They talked a long while together, Brangwen flushing like a
girl when the other did not understand his idiom. Then they said
good night, and shook hands. Again the foreigner bowed and
repeated his good night.


"Good night, and bon voyage."


Then he turned to the stairs.


Brangwen went up to his room and lay staring out at the stars
of the summer night, his whole being in a whirl. What was it
all? There was a life so different from what he knew it. What
was there outside his knowledge, how much? What was this that he
had touched? What was he in this new influence? What did
everything mean? Where was life, in that which he knew or all
outside him?
"""
,
"""
He fell asleep, and in the morning had ridden away before any
other visitors were awake. He shrank from seeing any of them
again, in the morning.


His mind was one big excitement. The girl and the foreigner:
he knew neither of their names. Yet they had set fire to the
homestead of his nature, and he would be burned out of cover. Of
the two experiences, perhaps the meeting with the foreigner was
the more significant. But the girl--he had not settled
about the girl.


He did not know. He had to leave it there, as it was. He
could not sum up his experiences.


The result of these encounters was, that he dreamed day and
night, absorbedly, of a voluptuous woman and of the meeting with
a small, withered foreigner of ancient breeding. No sooner was
his mind free, no sooner had he left his own companions, than he
began to imagine an intimacy with fine-textured, subtle-mannered
people such as the foreigner at Matlock, and amidst this subtle
intimacy was always the satisfaction of a voluptuous woman.


He went about absorbed in the interest and the actuality of
this dream. His eyes glowed, he walked with his head up, full of
the exquisite pleasure of aristocratic subtlety and grace,
tormented with the desire for the girl.


Then gradually the glow began to fade, and the cold material
of his customary life to show through. He resented it. Was he
cheated in his illusion? He balked the mean enclosure of
reality, stood stubbornly like a bull at a gate, refusing to
re-enter the well-known round of his own life.


He drank more than usual to keep up the glow. But it faded
more and more for all that. He set his teeth at the commonplace,
to which he would not submit. It resolved itself starkly before
him, for all that.
"""
,
"""
He wanted to marry, to get settled somehow, to get out of the
quandary he found himself in. But how? He felt unable to move
his limbs. He had seen a little creature caught in bird-lime,
and the sight was a nightmare to him. He began to feel mad with
the rage of impotency.


He wanted something to get hold of, to pull himself out. But
there was nothing. Steadfastly he looked at the young women, to
find a one he could marry. But not one of them did he want. And
he knew that the idea of a life among such people as the
foreigner was ridiculous.


Yet he dreamed of it, and stuck to his dreams, and would not
have the reality of Cossethay and Ilkeston. There he sat
stubbornly in his corner at the "Red Lion", smoking and musing
and occasionally lifting his beer-pot, and saying nothing, for
all the world like a gorping farm-labourer, as he said
himself.


Then a fever of restless anger came upon him. He wanted to go
away--right away. He dreamed of foreign parts. But somehow
he had no contact with them. And it was a very strong root which
held him to the Marsh, to his own house and land.


Then Effie got married, and he was left in the house with
only Tilly, the cross-eyed woman-servant who had been with them
for fifteen years. He felt things coming to a close. All the
time, he had held himself stubbornly resistant to the action of
the commonplace unreality which wanted to absorb him. But now he
had to do something.


He was by nature temperate. Being sensitive and emotional,
his nausea prevented him from drinking too much.


But, in futile anger, with the greatest of determination and
apparent good humour, he began to drink in order to get drunk.
"Damn it," he said to himself, "you must have it one road or
another--you can't hitch your horse to the shadow of a
gate-post--if you've got legs you've got to rise off your
backside some time or other."
"""
,
"""
So he rose and went down to Ilkeston, rather awkwardly took
his place among a gang of young bloods, stood drinks to the
company, and discovered he could carry it off quite well. He had
an idea that everybody in the room was a man after his own
heart, that everything was glorious, everything was perfect.
When somebody in alarm told him his coat pocket was on fire, he
could only beam from a red, blissful face and say
"Iss-all-ri-ight--iss-al'-ri-ight--it's a'
right--let it be, let it be----" and he laughed
with pleasure, and was rather indignant that the others should
think it unnatural for his coat pocket to burn:--it was the
happiest and most natural thing in the world--what?


He went home talking to himself and to the moon, that was
very high and small, stumbling at the flashes of moonlight from
the puddles at his feet, wondering What the Hanover! then
laughing confidently to the moon, assuring her this was first
class, this was.


In the morning he woke up and thought about it, and for the
first time in his life, knew what it was to feel really acutely
irritable, in a misery of real bad temper. After bawling and
snarling at Tilly, he took himself off for very shame, to be
alone. And looking at the ashen fields and the putty roads, he
wondered what in the name of Hell he could do to get out of this
prickly sense of disgust and physical repulsion. And he knew
that this was the result of his glorious evening.


And his stomach did not want any more brandy. He went
doggedly across the fields with his terrier, and looked at
everything with a jaundiced eye.


The next evening found him back again in his place at the
"Red Lion", moderate and decent. There he sat and stubbornly
waited for what would happen next.
"""
,
"""
Did he, or did he not believe that he belonged to this world
of Cossethay and Ilkeston? There was nothing in it he wanted.
Yet could he ever get out of it? Was there anything in himself
that would carry him out of it? Or was he a dunderheaded baby,
not man enough to be like the other young fellows who drank a
good deal and wenched a little without any question, and were
satisfied.


He went on stubbornly for a time. Then the strain became too
great for him. A hot, accumulated consciousness was always awake
in his chest, his wrists felt swelled and quivering, his mind
became full of lustful images, his eyes seemed blood-flushed. He
fought with himself furiously, to remain normal. He did not seek
any woman. He just went on as if he were normal. Till he must
either take some action or beat his head against the wall.


Then he went deliberately to Ilkeston, in silence, intent and
beaten. He drank to get drunk. He gulped down the brandy, and
more brandy, till his face became pale, his eyes burning. And
still he could not get free. He went to sleep in drunken
unconsciousness, woke up at four o'clock in the morning and
continued drinking. He would get free. Gradually the
tension in him began to relax. He began to feel happy. His
riveted silence was unfastened, he began to talk and babble. He
was happy and at one with all the world, he was united with all
flesh in a hot blood-relationship. So, after three days of
incessant brandy-drinking, he had burned out the youth from his
blood, he had achieved this kindled state of oneness with all
the world, which is the end of youth's most passionate desire.
But he had achieved his satisfaction by obliterating his own
individuality, that which it depended on his manhood to preserve
and develop.
"""
,
"""
So he became a bout-drinker, having at intervals these bouts
of three or four days of brandy-drinking, when he was drunk for
the whole time. He did not think about it. A deep resentment
burned in him. He kept aloof from any women, antagonistic.


When he was twenty-eight, a thick-limbed, stiff, fair man
with fresh complexion, and blue eyes staring very straight
ahead, he was coming one day down from Cossethay with a load of
seed out of Nottingham. It was a time when he was getting ready
for another bout of drinking, so he stared fixedly before him,
watchful yet absorbed, seeing everything and aware of nothing,
coiled in himself. It was early in the year.


He walked steadily beside the horse, the load clanked behind
as the hill descended steeper. The road curved down-hill before
him, under banks and hedges, seen only for a few yards
ahead.


Slowly turning the curve at the steepest part of the slope,
his horse britching between the shafts, he saw a woman
approaching. But he was thinking for the moment of the
horse.


Then he turned to look at her. She was dressed in black, was
apparently rather small and slight, beneath her long black
cloak, and she wore a black bonnet. She walked hastily, as if
unseeing, her head rather forward. It was her curious, absorbed,
flitting motion, as if she were passing unseen by everybody,
that first arrested him.


She had heard the cart, and looked up. Her face was pale and
clear, she had thick dark eyebrows and a wide mouth, curiously
held. He saw her face clearly, as if by a light in the air. He
saw her face so distinctly, that he ceased to coil on himself,
and was suspended.


"That's her," he said involuntarily. As the cart passed by,
splashing through the thin mud, she stood back against the bank.
Then, as he walked still beside his britching horse, his eyes
met hers. He looked quickly away, pressing back his head, a pain
of joy running through him. He could not bear to think of
anything.
"""
,
"""
He turned round at the last moment. He saw her bonnet, her
shape in the black cloak, the movement as she walked. Then she
was gone round the bend.


She had passed by. He felt as if he were walking again in a
far world, not Cossethay, a far world, the fragile reality. He
went on, quiet, suspended, rarefied. He could not bear to think
or to speak, nor make any sound or sign, nor change his fixed
motion. He could scarcely bear to think of her face. He moved
within the knowledge of her, in the world that was beyond
reality.


The feeling that they had exchanged recognition possessed him
like a madness, like a torment. How could he be sure, what
confirmation had he? The doubt was like a sense of infinite
space, a nothingness, annihilating. He kept within his breast
the will to surety. They had exchanged recognition.


He walked about in this state for the next few days. And then
again like a mist it began to break to let through the common,
barren world. He was very gentle with man and beast, but he
dreaded the starkness of disillusion cropping through again.


As he was standing with his back to the fire after dinner a
few days later, he saw the woman passing. He wanted to know that
she knew him, that she was aware. He wanted it said that there
was something between them. So he stood anxiously watching,
looking at her as she went down the road. He called to
Tilly.


"Who might that be?" he asked.


Tilly, the cross-eyed woman of forty, who adored him, ran
gladly to the window to look. She was glad when he asked her for
anything. She craned her head over the short curtain, the little
tight knob of her black hair sticking out pathetically as she
bobbed about.
"""
,
"""
"Oh why"--she lifted her head and peered with her
twisted, keen brown eyes--"why, you know who it
is--it's her from th' vicarage--you know--"


"How do I know, you hen-bird," he shouted.


Tilly blushed and drew her neck in and looked at him with her
squinting, sharp, almost reproachful look.


"Why you do--it's the new housekeeper."


"Ay--an' what by that?"


"Well, an' what by that?" rejoined the indignant
Tilly.


"She's a woman, isn't she, housekeeper or no housekeeper?
She's got more to her than that! Who is she--she's got a
name?"


"Well, if she has, I don't know," retorted Tilly, not
to be badgered by this lad who had grown up into a man.


"What's her name?" he asked, more gently.


"I'm sure I couldn't tell you," replied Tilly, on her
dignity.


"An' is that all as you've gathered, as she's housekeeping at
the vicarage?"


"I've 'eered mention of 'er name, but I couldn't remember it
for my life."


"Why, yer riddle-skulled woman o' nonsense, what have you got
a head for?"


"For what other folks 'as got theirs for," retorted Tilly,
who loved nothing more than these tilts when he would call her
names.


There was a lull.


"I don't believe as anybody could keep it in their head," the
woman-servant continued, tentatively.


"What?" he asked.


"Why, 'er name."


"How's that?"


"She's fra some foreign parts or other."


"Who told you that?"


"That's all I do know, as she is."


"An' wheer do you reckon she's from, then?"


"I don't know. They do say as she hails fra th' Pole. I don't
know," Tilly hastened to add, knowing he would attack her.


"Fra th' Pole, why do you hail fra th' Pole? Who set
up that menagerie confabulation?"


"That's what they say--I don't know----"


"Who says?"


"Mrs. Bentley says as she's fra th' Pole--else she is a
Pole, or summat."
"""
,
"""
Tilly was only afraid she was landing herself deeper now.


"Who says she's a Pole?"


"They all say so."


"Then what's brought her to these parts?"


"I couldn't tell you. She's got a little girl with her."


"Got a little girl with her?"


"Of three or four, with a head like a fuzz-ball."


"Black?"


"White--fair as can be, an' all of a fuzz."


"Is there a father, then?"


"Not to my knowledge. I don't know."


"What brought her here?"


"I couldn't say, without th' vicar axed her."


"Is the child her child?"


"I s'd think so--they say so."


"Who told you about her?"


"Why, Lizzie--a-Monday--we seed her goin'
past."


"You'd have to be rattling your tongues if anything went
past."


Brangwen stood musing. That evening he went up to Cossethay
to the "Red Lion", half with the intention of hearing more.


She was the widow of a Polish doctor, he gathered. Her
husband had died, a refugee, in London. She spoke a bit
foreign-like, but you could easily make out what she said. She
had one little girl named Anna. Lensky was the woman's name,
Mrs. Lensky.


Brangwen felt that here was the unreality established at
last. He felt also a curious certainty about her, as if she were
destined to him. It was to him a profound satisfaction that she
was a foreigner.


A swift change had taken place on the earth for him, as if a
new creation were fulfilled, in which he had real existence.
Things had all been stark, unreal, barren, mere nullities
before. Now they were actualities that he could handle.


He dared scarcely think of the woman. He was afraid. Only all
the time he was aware of her presence not far off, he lived in
her. But he dared not know her, even acquaint himself with her
by thinking of her.
"""
,
"""
One day he met her walking along the road with her little
girl. It was a child with a face like a bud of apple-blossom,
and glistening fair hair like thistle-down sticking out in
straight, wild, flamy pieces, and very dark eyes. The child
clung jealously to her mother's side when he looked at her,
staring with resentful black eyes. But the mother glanced at him
again, almost vacantly. And the very vacancy of her look
inflamed him. She had wide grey-brown eyes with very dark,
fathomless pupils. He felt the fine flame running under his
skin, as if all his veins had caught fire on the surface. And he
went on walking without knowledge.


It was coming, he knew, his fate. The world was submitting to
its transformation. He made no move: it would come, what would
come.


When his sister Effie came to the Marsh for a week, he went
with her for once to church. In the tiny place, with its mere
dozen pews, he sat not far from the stranger. There was a
fineness about her, a poignancy about the way she sat and held
her head lifted. She was strange, from far off, yet so intimate.
She was from far away, a presence, so close to his soul. She was
not really there, sitting in Cossethay church beside her little
girl. She was not living the apparent life of her days. She
belonged to somewhere else. He felt it poignantly, as something
real and natural. But a pang of fear for his own concrete life,
that was only Cossethay, hurt him, and gave him misgiving.


Her thick dark brows almost met above her irregular nose, she
had a wide, rather thick mouth. But her face was lifted to
another world of life: not to heaven or death: but to some place
where she still lived, in spite of her body's absence.
"""
,
"""
My true name is so well known in the records or registers at Newgate,
and in the Old Bailey, and there are some things of such consequence
still depending there, relating to my particular conduct, that it is
not be expected I should set my name or the account of my family to
this work; perhaps, after my death, it may be better known; at present
it would not be proper, no not though a general pardon should be
issued, even without exceptions and reserve of persons or crimes.


It is enough to tell you, that as some of my worst comrades, who are
out of the way of doing me harm (having gone out of the world by the
steps and the string, as I often expected to go ), knew me by the name
of Moll Flanders, so you may give me leave to speak of myself under
that name till I dare own who I have been, as well as who I am.


I have been told that in one of neighbour nations, whether it be in
France or where else I know not, they have an order from the king, that
when any criminal is condemned, either to die, or to the galleys, or to
be transported, if they leave any children, as such are generally
unprovided for, by the poverty or forfeiture of their parents, so they
are immediately taken into the care of the Government, and put into a
hospital called the House of Orphans, where they are bred up, clothed,
fed, taught, and when fit to go out, are placed out to trades or to
services, so as to be well able to provide for themselves by an honest,
industrious behaviour.


Had this been the custom in our country, I had not been left a poor
desolate girl without friends, without clothes, without help or helper
in the world, as was my fate; and by which I was not only exposed to
very great distresses, even before I was capable either of
understanding my case or how to amend it, but brought into a course of
life which was not only scandalous in itself, but which in its ordinary
course tended to the swift destruction both of soul and body.
"""
,
"""
But the case was otherwise here.  My mother was convicted of felony for
a certain petty theft scarce worth naming, viz.  having an opportunity
of borrowing three pieces of fine holland of a certain draper in
Cheapside.  The circumstances are too long to repeat, and I have heard
them related so many ways, that I can scarce be certain which is the
right account.


However it was, this they all agree in, that my mother pleaded her
belly, and being found quick with child, she was respited for about
seven months; in which time having brought me into the world, and being
about again, she was called down, as they term it, to her former
judgment, but obtained the favour of being transported to the
plantations, and left me about half a year old; and in bad hands, you
may be sure.


This is too near the first hours of my life for me to relate anything
of myself but by hearsay; it is enough to mention, that as I was born
in such an unhappy place, I had no parish to have recourse to for my
nourishment in my infancy; nor can I give the least account how I was
kept alive, other than that, as I have been told, some relation of my
mother's took me away for a while as a nurse, but at whose expense, or
by whose direction, I know nothing at all of it.


The first account that I can recollect, or could ever learn of myself,
was that I had wandered among a crew of those people they call gypsies,
or Egyptians; but I believe it was but a very little while that I had
been among them, for I had not had my skin discoloured or blackened, as
they do very young to all the children they carry about with them; nor
can I tell how I came among them, or how I got from them.
"""
,
"""
It was at Colchester, in Essex, that those people left me; and I have a
notion in my head that I left them there (that is, that I hid myself
and would not go any farther with them), but I am not able to be
particular in that account; only this I remember, that being taken up
by some of the parish officers of Colchester, I gave an account that I
came into the town with the gypsies, but that I would not go any
farther with them, and that so they had left me, but whither they were
gone that I knew not, nor could they expect it of me; for though they
send round the country to inquire after them, it seems they could not
be found.


I was now in a way to be provided for; for though I was not a parish
charge upon this or that part of the town by law, yet as my case came
to be known, and that I was too young to do any work, being not above
three years old, compassion moved the magistrates of the town to order
some care to be taken of me, and I became one of their own as much as
if I had been born in the place.


In the provision they made for me, it was my good hap to be put to
nurse, as they call it, to a woman who was indeed poor but had been in
better circumstances, and who got a little livelihood by taking such as
I was supposed to be, and keeping them with all necessaries, till they
were at a certain age, in which it might be supposed they might go to
service or get their own bread.


This woman had also had a little school, which she kept to teach
children to read and to work; and having, as I have said, lived before
that in good fashion, she bred up the children she took with a great
deal of art, as well as with a great deal of care.
"""
,
"""
But that which was worth all the rest, she bred them up very
religiously, being herself a very sober, pious woman, very house-wifely
and clean, and very mannerly, and with good behaviour.  So that in a
word, expecting a plain diet, coarse lodging, and mean clothes, we were
brought up as mannerly and as genteelly as if we had been at the
dancing-school.


I was continued here till I was eight years old, when I was terrified
with news that the magistrates (as I think they called them) had
ordered that I should go to service.  I was able to do but very little
service wherever I was to go, except it was to run of errands and be a
drudge to some cookmaid, and this they told me of often, which put me
into a great fright; for I had a thorough aversion to going to service,
as they called it (that is, to be a servant), though I was so young;
and I told my nurse, as we called her, that I believed I could get my
living without going to service, if she pleased to let me; for she had
taught me to work with my needle, and spin worsted, which is the chief
trade of that city, and I told her that if she would keep me, I would
work for her, and I would work very hard.


I talked to her almost every day of working hard; and, in short, I did
nothing but work and cry all day, which grieved the good, kind woman so
much, that at last she began to be concerned for me, for she loved me
very well.
"""
,
"""
One day after this, as she came into the room where all we poor
children were at work, she sat down just over against me, not in her
usual place as mistress, but as if she set herself on purpose to
observe me and see me work.  I was doing something she had set me to;
as I remember, it was marking some shirts which she had taken to make,
and after a while she began to talk to me.  'Thou foolish child,' says
she, 'thou art always crying (for I was crying then); 'prithee, what
dost cry for?' 'Because they will take me away,' says I, 'and put me to
service, and I can't work housework.'  'Well, child,' says she, 'but
though you can't work housework, as you call it, you will learn it in
time, and they won't put you to hard things at first.'  'Yes, they
will,' says I, 'and if I can't do it they will beat me, and the maids
will beat me to make me do great work, and I am but a little girl and I
can't do it'; and then I cried again, till I could not speak any more
to her.


This moved my good motherly nurse, so that she from that time resolved
I should not go to service yet; so she bid me not cry, and she would
speak to Mr. Mayor, and I should not go to service till I was bigger.


Well, this did not satisfy me, for to think of going to service was
such a frightful thing to me, that if she had assured me I should not
have gone till I was twenty years old, it would have been the same to
me; I should have cried, I believe, all the time, with the very
apprehension of its being to be so at last.
"""
,
"""
When she saw that I was not pacified yet, she began to be angry with
me.  'And what would you have?' says she; 'don't I tell you that you
shall not go to service till your are bigger?' 'Ay,' said I, 'but then
I must go at last.'  'Why, what?' said she; 'is the girl mad?  What
would you be--a gentlewoman?' 'Yes,' says I, and cried heartily till I
roared out again.


This set the old gentlewoman a-laughing at me, as you may be sure it
would.  'Well, madam, forsooth,' says she, gibing at me, 'you would be
a gentlewoman; and pray how will you come to be a gentlewoman?  What!
will you do it by your fingers' end?'


'Yes,' says I again, very innocently.


'Why, what can you earn?' says she; 'what can you get at your work?'


'Threepence,' said I, 'when I spin, and fourpence when I work plain
work.'


'Alas! poor gentlewoman,' said she again, laughing, 'what will that do
for thee?'


'It will keep me,' says I, 'if you will let me live with you.'  And
this I said in such a poor petitioning tone, that it made the poor
woman's heart yearn to me, as she told me afterwards.


'But,' says she, 'that will not keep you and buy you clothes too; and
who must buy the little gentlewoman clothes?' says she, and smiled all
the while at me.


'I will work harder, then,' says I, 'and you shall have it all.'


'Poor child! it won't keep you,' says she; 'it will hardly keep you in
victuals.'


'Then I will have no victuals,' says I, again very innocently; 'let me
but live with you.'


'Why, can you live without victuals?' says she.


'Yes,' again says I, very much like a child, you may be sure, and still
I cried heartily.
"""
,
"""
I had no policy in all this; you may easily see it was all nature; but
it was joined with so much innocence and so much passion that, in
short, it set the good motherly creature a-weeping too, and she cried
at last as fast as I did, and then took me and led me out of the
teaching-room.  'Come,' says she, 'you shan't go to service; you shall
live with me'; and this pacified me for the present.


Some time after this, she going to wait on the Mayor, and talking of
such things as belonged to her business, at last my story came up, and
my good nurse told Mr. Mayor the whole tale.  He was so pleased with
it, that he would call his lady and his two daughters to hear it, and
it made mirth enough among them, you may be sure.


However, not a week had passed over, but on a sudden comes Mrs.
Mayoress and her two daughters to the house to see my old nurse, and to
see her school and the children.  When they had looked about them a
little, 'Well, Mrs. ----,' says the Mayoress to my nurse, 'and pray
which is the little lass that intends to be a gentlewoman?'  I heard
her, and I was terribly frighted at first, though I did not know why
neither; but Mrs. Mayoress comes up to me.  'Well, miss,' says she,
'and what are you at work upon?'  The word miss was a language that had
hardly been heard of in our school, and I wondered what sad name it was
she called me.  However, I stood up, made a curtsy, and she took my
work out of my hand, looked on it, and said it was very well; then she
took up one of the hands.  'Nay,' says she, 'the child may come to be a
gentlewoman for aught anybody knows; she has a gentlewoman's hand,'
says she.  This pleased me mightily, you may be sure; but Mrs. Mayoress
did not stop there, but giving me my work again, she put her hand in
her pocket, gave me a shilling, and bid me mind my work, and learn to
work well, and I might be a gentlewoman for aught she knew.
"""
,
"""
Now all this while my good old nurse, Mrs. Mayoress, and all the rest
of them did not understand me at all, for they meant one sort of thing
by the word gentlewoman, and I meant quite another; for alas! all I
understood by being a gentlewoman was to be able to work for myself,
and get enough to keep me without that terrible bugbear going to
service, whereas they meant to live great, rich and high, and I know
not what.


Well, after Mrs. Mayoress was gone, her two daughters came in, and they
called for the gentlewoman too, and they talked a long while to me, and
I answered them in my innocent way; but always, if they asked me
whether I resolved to be a gentlewoman, I answered Yes.  At last one of
them asked me what a gentlewoman was?  That puzzled me much; but,
however, I explained myself negatively, that it was one that did not go
to service, to do housework.  They were pleased to be familiar with me,
and like my little prattle to them, which, it seems, was agreeable
enough to them, and they gave me money too.


As for my money, I gave it all to my mistress-nurse, as I called her,
and told her she should have all I got for myself when I was a
gentlewoman, as well as now.  By this and some other of my talk, my old
tutoress began to understand me about what I meant by being a
gentlewoman, and that I understood by it no more than to be able to get
my bread by my own work; and at last she asked me whether it was not so.
I told her, yes, and insisted on it, that to do so was to be a
gentlewoman; 'for,' says I, 'there is such a one,' naming a woman that
mended lace and washed the ladies' laced-heads; 'she,' says I, 'is a
gentlewoman, and they call her madam.'
"""
,
"""
'Poor child,' says my good old nurse, 'you may soon be such a
gentlewoman as that, for she is a person of ill fame, and has had two
or three bastards.'


I did not understand anything of that; but I answered, 'I am sure they
call her madam, and she does not go to service nor do housework'; and
therefore I insisted that she was a gentlewoman, and I would be such a
gentlewoman as that.


The ladies were told all this again, to be sure, and they made
themselves merry with it, and every now and then the young ladies, Mr.
Mayor's daughters, would come and see me, and ask where the little
gentlewoman was, which made me not a little proud of myself.


This held a great while, and I was often visited by these young ladies,
and sometimes they brought others with them; so that I was known by it
almost all over the town.


I was now about ten years old, and began to look a little womanish, for
I was mighty grave and humble, very mannerly, and as I had often heard
the ladies say I was pretty, and would be a very handsome woman, so you
may be sure that hearing them say so made me not a little proud.
However, that pride had no ill effect upon me yet; only, as they often
gave me money, and I gave it to my old nurse, she, honest woman, was so
just to me as to lay it all out again for me, and gave me head-dresses,
and linen, and gloves, and ribbons, and I went very neat, and always
clean; for that I would do, and if I had rags on, I would always be
clean, or else I would dabble them in water myself; but, I say, my good
nurse, when I had money given me, very honestly laid it out for me, and
would always tell the ladies this or that was bought with their money;
and this made them oftentimes give me more, till at last I was indeed
called upon by the magistrates, as I understood it, to go out to
service; but then I was come to be so good a workwoman myself, and the
ladies were so kind to me, that it was plain I could maintain
myself--that is to say, I could earn as much for my nurse as she was
able by it to keep me--so she told them that if they would give her
leave, she would keep the gentlewoman, as she called me, to be her
assistant and teach the children, which I was very well able to do; for
I was very nimble at my work, and had a good hand with my needle,
though I was yet very young.
"""
,
"""
The month was September and the place was in the neighbourhood of
Bridgetown, in the island of Barbadoes. The seventeenth century was not
seventeen years old, but the girl who walked slowly down to the river
bank was three years its senior. She carried a fishing-rod and line, and
her name was Kate Bonnet. She was a bright-faced, quick-moving young
person, and apparently did not expect to catch many fish, for she had no
basket in which to carry away her finny prizes. Nor, apparently, did she
have any bait, except that which was upon her hook and which had been
affixed there by one of the servants at her home, not far away. In fact,
Mistress Kate was too nicely dressed and her gloves were too clean to
have much to do with fish or bait, but she seated herself on a little
rock in a shady spot not far from the water and threw forth her line.
Then she gazed about her; a little up the river and a good deal down the
river.


It was truly a pleasant scene which lay before her eyes. Not half a mile
away was the bridge which gave this English settlement its name, and
beyond the river were woods and cultivated fields, with here and there a
little bit of smoke, for it was growing late in the afternoon, when
smoke meant supper. Beyond all this the land rose from the lower ground
near the river and the sea, in terrace after terrace, until the upper
stretches of its woodlands showed clear against the evening sky.


But Mistress Kate Bonnet now gazed steadily down the stream, beyond the
town and the bridge, and paid no more attention to the scenery than the
scenery did to her, although one was quite as beautiful as the other.
"""
,
"""
There was a bunch of white flowers in the hat of the young girl; not a
very large one, and not a very small one, but of such a size as might be
easily seen from the bridge, had any one happened to be crossing about
that time. And, in fact, as the wearer of the hat and the white flowers
still continued to gaze at the bridge, she saw some one come out upon it
with a quick, buoyant step, and then she saw him stop and gaze steadily
up the river. At this she turned her head, and her eyes went out over
the beautiful landscape and the wide terraces rising above each other
towards the sky.


It is astonishing how soon after this a young man, dressed in a brown
suit, and very pleasant to look upon, came rapidly walking along the
river bank. This was Master Martin Newcombe, a young Englishman, not two
years from his native land, and now a prosperous farmer on the other
side of the river.


It often happened that Master Newcombe, at the close of his agricultural
labours, would put on a good suit of clothes and ride over the bridge to
the town, to attend to business or to social duties, as the case might
be. But, sometimes, not willing to encumber himself with a horse, he
walked over the bridge and strolled or hurried along the river bank.
This was one of the times in which he hurried. He had been caught by the
vision of the bunch of white flowers in the hat of the girl who was
seated on the rock in the shade.


As Master Newcombe stepped near, his spirits rose, as they had not
always risen, as he approached Mistress Kate, for he perceived that,
although she held the handle of her rod in her hand, the other end of it
was lying on the ground, not very far away from the bait and the hook
which, it was very plain, had not been in the water at all. She must
have been thinking of something else besides fishing, he thought. But he
did not dare to go on with that sort of thinking in the way he would
have liked to do it. He had not too great a belief in himself, though he
was very much in love with Kate Bonnet.
"""
,
"""
"Is this the best time of day for fishing, Master Newcombe?" she said,
without rising or offering him her hand. "For my part, I don't believe
it is."


He smiled as he threw his hat upon the ground. "Let me put your line a
little farther out." And so saying, he took the rod from her hand and
stepped between her and the bait, which must have been now quite hot
from lying so long in a bit of sunshine. He rearranged the bait and
threw the line far out into the river. Then he gave her the rod again.
He seated himself on the ground near-by.


"This is the second time I have been over the bridge to-day," he said,
"and this morning, very early, I saw, for the first time, your father's
ship, which was lying below the town. It is a fine vessel, so far as I
can judge, being a landsman."


"Yes," said she, "and I have been on board of her and have gone all over
her, and have seen many things which are queer and strange to me. But
the strangest thing about her, to my mind, being a landswoman, is, that
she should belong to my father. There are many things which he has not,
which it would be easy to believe he would like to have, but that a
ship, with sails and anchors and hatchways, should be one of these
things, it is hard to imagine."


Young Newcombe thought it was impossible to imagine, but he expressed
himself discreetly.


"It must be that he is going to engage in trade," he said; "has he not
told you of his intentions?"


"Not much," said she. "He says he is going to cruise about among the
islands, and when I asked him if he would take me, he laughed, and
answered that he might do so, but that I must never say a word of it to
Madam Bonnet, for if she heard of it she might change his plans."
"""
,
"""
The wicked young man found himself almost wishing that the somewhat
bad-tempered Madam Bonnet might hear of and change any plan which might
take her husband's daughter from this town, especially in a vessel; for
vessels were always terribly tardy when any one was waiting for their
return. And, besides, it often happened that vessels never came back at
all.


"I shall take a little trip with him even if we don't go far; it would
be ridiculous for my father to own a ship, and for me never to sail in
her."


"That would not be so bad," said Master Martin, feeling that a short
absence might be endured. Moreover, if a little pleasure trip were to be
made, it was reasonable enough to suppose that other people, not
belonging to the Bonnet family, might be asked to sail as guests.


"What my father expects to trade in," said she contemplatively gazing
before her, "I am sure I do not know. It cannot be horses or cattle, for
he has not enough of them to make such a venture profitable. And as to
sugar-cane, or anything from his farm, I am sure he has a good enough
market here for all he has to sell. Certainly he does not produce enough
to make it necessary for him to buy a ship in order to carry them away."


"It is opined," said Martin, "by the people of the town, that Major
Bonnet intends to become a commercial man, and to carry away to the
other islands, and perhaps to the old country itself, the goods of other
people."


"Now that would be fine!" said Mistress Kate, her eyes sparkling, "for I
should then surely go with him, and would see the world, and perhaps
London." And her face flushed with the prospect.
"""
,
"""
Martin's face did not flush. "But if your father's ship sailed on a long
voyage," he said, with a suspicion of apprehension, "he would not sail
with her; he would send her under the charge of others."


The girl shook her head. "When she sails," said she, "he sails in her.
If you had heard him talking as I have heard him, you would not doubt
that. And if he sails, I sail."


Martin's soul grew quite sad. There were very good reasons to believe
that this dear girl might sail away from Bridgetown, and from him. She
might come back to the town, but she might not come back to him.


"Mistress Kate," said he, looking very earnestly at her, "do you know
that such speech as this makes my heart sink? You know I love you, I
have told you so before. If you were to sail away, I care not to what
port, this world would be a black place for me."


"That is like a lover," she exclaimed a little pertly; "it is like them
all, every man of them. They must have what they want, and they must
have it, no matter who else may suffer."


He rose and stood by her.


"But I don't want you to suffer," he said. "Do you think it would be
suffering to live with one who loved you, who would spend his whole life
in making you happy, who would look upon you as the chief thing in the
world, and have no other ambition than to make himself worthy of you?"


She looked up at him with a little smile.


"That would, doubtless, be all very pleasant for you," she said, "and in
order that you might be pleased, you would have her give up so much.
That is the way with men! Now, here am I, born in the very end of the
last century, and having had, consequently, no good out of that, and
with but seventeen years in this century, and most of it passed in
girlhood and in school; and now, when the world might open before me for
a little, here you come along and tell me all that you would like to
have, and that you would like me to give up."
"""
,
"""
"But you should not think," said he, and that was all he said, for at
that moment Kate Bonnet felt a little jerk at the end of her line, and
then a good strong pull.


"I have a fish!" she cried, and sprang to her feet. Then, with a swoop,
she threw into the midst of the weeds and wild flowers a struggling fish
which Martin hastened to take from the hook.


"A fine fellow!" he cried, "and he has arrived just in time to make a
dainty dish for your supper."


"Ah, no!" she said, winding the line about her rod; "if I were to take
that fish to the house, it would sorely disturb Madam Bonnet. She would
object to my catching it; she would object to having it prepared for the
table; she would object to having it eaten, when she had arranged that
we should eat something else. No, I will give it to you, Master
Newcombe; I suppose in your house you can cook and eat what you please."


"Yes," said he; "but how delightful it would be if we could eat it
together."


"Meaning," said she, "that I should never eat other fish than those from
this river. No, sir; that may not be. I have a notion that the first
foreign fish I shall eat will be found in the island of Jamaica, for my
father said, that possibly he might first take a trip there, where lives
my mother's brother, whom we have not seen for a long time. But, as I
told you before, nobody must know this. And now I must go to my supper,
and you must take yours home with you."


"And I am sure it will be the sweetest fish," he said, "that was ever
caught in all these waters. But I beg, before you go, you will promise
me one thing."


"Promise you!" said she, quite loftily.


"Yes," he answered; "tell me that, no matter where you go, you will not
leave Bridgetown without letting me know of it?"
"""